As We enter the digital age, where technology is used to solve problems in all fields, the demand for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) jobs is rising (United States Department of Education, "Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math for Global Leadership", 2010). Due to this, schools are searching for ways to ensure that there will always be a sufficient supply of skilled workers to fuel the job market. But we cannot prioritize STEM fields too much, or we risk a future where being human simply isn't a consideration.

Kentucky governor Matt Bevin has become a controversial figure as he announced his desire to provide state subsidies for students in STEM-related professions like electrical engineering as opposed to humanities fields like French literature ("Stem Education is Vital, but Not at the Expense of the Humanities" Science American, 2016). I wholeheartedly agree with the backlash against him as financially motivating students to enter STEM will only create pressure, dissatisfaction, and lack of motivation instead of curiosity, ingenuity, and altruistic interest. By making a STEM degree more affordable than an equivalent arts degree, lower income students will feel forced to take STEM jobs they may not enjoy in order to have financial security. Parents would also want their children to enter STEM so there would be less tuition to pay, which can lead to strained familial relationships if the child would rather study humanities.

While a the US Department of Education report shows that there has been a 14% increase in STEM jobs, over 90% of employers want employees with ethical judgment and integrity who are comfortable working with people from diverse cultural backgrounds (Hatt Research Associates, "It Takes More Than a Major: Employer Priorioties for College Learning and Student Success", 2013). These are traits taught by humanities, along with the ability to reflect on mistakes, observe the effects of others' actions, and make agreements that satisfy all parties. It is important that we are able to work together as a society and not repeat historical mistakes—so why aren't we focused on teaching that? In the words of an MIT graduate who went on to medical school, "Biology prepared me for medicine. Literature prepared me to be a doctor." (Fitzgerald, "At MIT, the Humanities Are Just as Important as STEM." The Boston Globe, 2014) Then why do our politicians, our school board members, our societal decision-makers not seem to care about ensuring we are taught communication skills?

Perhaps it is a flaw in how our education system was designed - general education first began as a way to generate large amounts of skilled slave-laborers for corporations. Yet, the corporations of today do not seek unquestioning, obedient, and endlessly hardworking slave-laborers, but instead wish to hire considerate, cooperative, and motivated critical thinkers. We must seek to reform schools from being factories for workers to institutions that prepare us for making a better future, a future which certainly includes content, free-thinking people that enjoy new works of art as well as technological innovations.