On September 26, 1872, three mounted men rode up to the gate of the Kansas City
Fair, which was enjoying a huge crowd of perhaps 10,000 people. The bandits shot
at the ticket seller, hit a small girl in the leg, and made off for the woods with something
less than a thousand dollars. It was highhanded, and it endangered the lives of a whole host of
holiday-minded people for comparatively little reward.
What makes the robbery and the violence notable is not the crime itself but the
way it was reported in the Kansas City Times by one John N. Edwards. In his front-page
story he branded the robbery "so diabolically daring and so utterly in contempt
of fear that we are bound to admire it and revere its perpetrators."
Two days later the outlaws were being compared by the Times with knights of
King Arthur's Round Table:
"It was as though three bandits had come to us from storied Odenwald, with the
halo of medieval chivalry upon their garments and shown us how the things were
done that poets sing of. Nowhere else in the United States or in the civilized world,
probably, could this thing have been done."
Quite likely this deed was perpetrated by the James brothers: Jesse and Frank, and
a confederate. The details really do not matter. What pertains is the attitude of the
innocent toward the uncertainly identified guilty. The act had been perpetrated by
violent, lawless men. If the Times is any indication, a respectable section of people
approved of their action. No one, of course, thought to ask the little girl with the
shattered leg how she felt about such courage. Nearly 17 months later, Edwards
was quoted in the St. Louis Dispatch as preferring the Western highwayman to the
Eastern, for "he has more qualities that attract admiration and win respect . . . . This
comes from locality . . . which breeds strong, hardy men-men who risk much, who
have friends in high places, and who go riding over the land, taking all chances that
come in the way." The purpose here is not to belabor one reasonably anonymous
newspaperman of nearly a century ago, but merely to point up a fact-and a problem-of
the American frontier.
The frontier placed a premium on independent action and individual reliance.
The whole history of the American frontier is a narrative of taking what was there
to be taken. The timid never gathered riches, the polite nearly never. The men
who first carved the wilderness into land claims and town lots were the men who moved
in the face of dangers, gathering as they progressed. The emphasis naturally came to
be placed on gathering and not on procedures. Great tales of gigantic attainments
abound in this frontier story; equally adventurous tales of creative plundering mark
the march from Jamestown to the Pacific. It was a period peopled by giants, towers
of audacity with insatiable appetites. The heroes are not the men of moderate
attitudes, not the town planners and commercial builders, not the farmers nor the
ministers nor the teachers. The heroes of the period, handed along to us with all the
luster of a golden baton, are the mighty runners from Mt. Olympus who ran without
looking back, without concern about social values or anywhere they might be going
except onward.
We revere these heroes because they were men of vast imagination and daring.
We have also inherited their blindness and their excesses.

1. In the opening paragraph of the passage (lines 1-5), the author tells the story of robbery primarily to 
(A) portray the character of life in Kansas City, 
(B) suggest that lawlessness was common back in the 1870s. 
(C) juxtapose the action against the response to it. 
(D) create suspense as to the identity of the outlaws. 
(E) contrast the crowd's enjoyment with the violence taking place in their midst. 

2. In lines 6-15, which of the following best describes the writer's main purpose? 
(A) To condemn the opinions and writing style of a particular journalist 
(B) To convey disapproval over the newspaper coverage of the incident at the fair 
(C) To express shock about the public's reaction to the crime 
(D) To stress the uniqueness of America's social and cultural history 
(E) To imply that values and customs from the medieval world are still alive and well 

3. The rhetorical effect of the sentence in lines 6-7 ("What makes . .. Edwards.") is heightened by the strategy of 
(A) using "What" as the first word, suggesting that a question will follow. 
(B) emphasizing harsh words such as "crime" and "violence." 
(C) placing it immediately after the story of the robbery. 
(D) asserting why the event was not noteworthy before saying why it was. 
(E) following it up with a vividly written description of the robbery. 

4. In context, the statement that "a respectable section of people approved of their action" 
(line 19) could be used to support which of these descriptions of the writer's opinions about the events in Kansas City? 
(A) He excuses the outlaws' behavior because as Midwesterners they suffered hardships. 
(B) He is more sympathetic toward Westerners than toward Easterners. 
(C) He adopts a semi-admiring tone of the outlaws. 
(D) He is outraged by the outlaws' insensitivity. 
(E) He is troubled by the public's response to the episode.

5. the phrase "such courage" (lines 20-21) can best be interpreted as an example en 
(A) a subtle use of irony. 
(B) a metaphorical allusion. 
(C) a witty aphorism. 
(D) a paradox. 
(E) an oxymoron. 

6. which of the following ways? 
The quotation from the St. Louis newspaper (lines 22-25) serves the author's purpose in 
(A) It makes a pitch for more accuracy in news reporting. 
(B) It makes clear the author's intention to destroy Edwards's reputation as a journalist. 
(C) It further illustrates the thinking of many Americans. 
(D) It reinforces the author's view expressed earlier that the bandits were "violent" and "lawless." 
(E) It provides a generalization on which the author will comment in the next paragraph. 

7. In the sixth paragraph (lines 28-40), the writer introduces an extended analogy in order to 
(A) heap praise on the spirit of the people who once populated America's frontier. 
(B) compare the Kansas City outlaws to men of the Old West. 
(C) suggest that the values of frontier people still exist in America. 
(D) excuse the behavior of the Kansas City outlaws. 
(E) explain why the Kansas City newspaper failed to condemn the outlaws. 

8. In the context of the passage, all of the following phrases refer to the same qualities EXCEPT 
(A) "contempt of fear" (line 8). 
(B) "attract admiration and win respect" (lines 22-23). 
(C) "taking all chances" (lines 24-25). 
(D) "independent action" (line 28). 
(E) "without concern for social values" (line 39). 

9. Which of the following quotations from the passage best supports the author's claim that frontier men valued "independent action and individual reliance" (line 28)? 
(A) "the James brothers" (line 16) 
(B) "a problem-of the American frontier" (lines 26-27) 
(C) "The timid never gathered riches" (line 30) 
(D) "creative plundering" (line 34) 
(E) "march from Jamestown to the Pacific" (line 34) 

10. Toward the end of the passage (lines 35-37), the writer includes a series from beginning with "not ... " etc. The writer uses this construction in order to 
(A) undermine the position of the Kansas City newspaper vis-à-vis the crime, 
(B) break down readers' stereotypical conceptions of frontier settlers. 
(C) reinforce a theory stated earlier about the alleged robbers. 
(D) reiterate the main point of the passage. 
(E) emphasize the unique stature of the Old West's heroes, 

11. The writer ends the passage with two sentences meant to suggest that Americans' attitude toward the frontier and its heroes 
(A) needs to be updated. 
(B) has long been distorted. 
(C) suffers from sentimentality. 
(D) will never be revised. 
(E) helps make America great. 

12. Which of the following best describes the writer's exigence in the passage? 
(A) Some people's insensitivity toward others 
(B) Americans' distorted legacy of the Old West 
(C) Consequences of the decline of law and order 
(D) The erosion of old-fashioned values in America 
(E) The harm that comes from an uninformed citizenry 
