The questions are based on the following passage from “Samuel Johnson on Pope,” which appeared in The Lives of the English Poets (1779–1781).

     The person of Pope is well known not to have been formed by the nicest model. He
has compared himself to a spider and, by another, is described as protuberant behind
and before. He is said to have been beautiful in his infancy, but he was of a constitution
feeble and weak. As bodies of a tender frame are easily distorted, his deformity was
probably in part the effect of his application. But his face was not displeasing, and his
eyes were animated and vivid.
     By natural deformity, or accidental distortion, his vital functions were so much
disordered, that his life was a “long disease.”
     He sometimes condescended to be jocular with servants or inferiors; but by no
merriment, either of others or his own, was he ever seen excited to laughter.
     Of his domestic character frugality was a part eminently remarkable. Having
determined not to be dependent, he determined not to be in want, and, therefore, wisely
and magnanimously rejected all temptations to expense unsuitable to his fortune.
     The great topic of his ridicule is poverty; the crimes with which he reproaches his
antagonists are their debts and their want of a dinner. He seems to be of an opinion not
very uncommon in the world, that to want money is to want everything.
     He professed to have learned his poetry from Dryden, whom he praised through
his whole life with unvaried liberality; and perhaps his character may receive some
illustration, if he be compared with his master.
     Integrity of understanding and nicety of discernment were not allotted in a less
proportion to Dryden than to Pope. But Dryden never desired to apply all the judgment
that he had. He wrote merely for the people. When he pleased others, he contented
himself. He never attempted to mend what he must have known to be faulty. He wrote
with little consideration and, once it had passed the press, ejected it from his mind.
     Pope was not content to satisfy; he desired to excel, and, therefore, always endeavored
to do his best. Pope did not court the candor, but dared the judgment of his reader,
and, expecting no indulgence from others, he showed none to himself. He examined
lines and words with minute and punctilious observation, and he retouched every part
with diligence, until he had nothing left to be forgiven.
     Poetry was not the sole praise of either; for both excelled likewise in prose. The
style of Dryden is capricious and varied; that of Pope is cautious and uniform. Dryden
observes the motions of his own mind; Pope constrains his mind to his own rules of
composition. Dryden’s page is a natural field, diversified by the exuberance of abundant
vegetation. Pope’s is a velvet lawn, shaven by the scythe, and leveled by the roller.
     If the flights of Dryden are higher, Pope continues longer on the wing. If of Dryden’s
fire the blaze is brighter, of Pope’s the heat is more regular and constant. Dryden is read
with frequent astonishment, and Pope with perpetual delight.

Question
Q1. The primary purpose of the passage is to

A.provide a character sketch of Pope
B.examine the principles of poetic style
C.criticize Dryden
D.present a model for future poets
E.create an opportunity for the writer to show off his own skills

Q2. The passage discusses a contrast among all of the following except:

A.prose and poetry
B.Pope and Dryden
C.body and mind
D.poverty and wealth
E.body and soul

Q3. The thesis is located in line(s)

A.1
B.7–8
C.11
D.20–21
E.36–37

Q4. The character of Pope is developed by all of the following except:

A.examples
B.comparison
C.contrast
D.satire
E.description

Q5. According to the passage, Pope and Dryden are

A.rivals
B.equally intelligent
C.outdated
D.equally physically attractive
E.in debt

Q6. From the passage, the reader may infer that Pope

A.was extravagant
B.was a man of the people
C.was jealous of Dryden
D.had a desire to be popular
E.had a bitter, satirical nature

Q7. “If the flights” (35) means

A.Pope’s writing will outlive Dryden’s
B.both Pope and Dryden are equal
C.Pope is not idealistic
D.Pope is more wordy
E.Pope is not as bright as Dryden

Q8. Lines 20–24 indicate that Dryden was what type of writer?

A.one who labored over his thoughts
B.one who wrote only for himself
C.one who wrote only for the critics
D.one who wrote to please Pope
E.one who did not revise

Q9. The tone of the passage is

A.informal and affectionate
B.formal and objective
C.condescending and paternalistic
D.laudatory and reverent
E.critical and negative

Q10. In the context of the passage, “until he had nothing left to be forgiven” (29) means

A.Pope outraged his readers
B.Pope suffered from writer’s block
C.Pope exhausted his subject matter
D.Pope’s prose was revised to perfection
E.Pope cared about the opinions of his readers

Q11. “Shaven” and “leveled” in line 34 indicate that Pope’s style of writing was

A.natural
B.richly ornamented
C.highly controlled
D.mechanical
E.analytical

Q12. Based on a close reading of the final paragraph of the passage, the reader could infer that the author

A.looks on both writers equally
B.prefers the work of Pope
C.sees the two writers as inferior to his own writing style
D.indicates no preference
E.prefers the work of Dryden

The questios are based on the following excerpt from Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s “Politics and Warfare,” which appears in The Man-Made World: Our Androcentric Culture (1911).

There are many today who hold that politics need not be at all connected with warfare; and others who hold that politics is warfare from start to finish.

1
The inextricable confusion of politics and warfare is part of the stumbling block in the minds of men. As they see it, a nation is primarily a fighting organization; and its principal business is offensive and defensive warfare; therefore the ultimatum with which they oppose the demand for political equality—“women cannot fight, therefore they cannot vote.”

2
Fighting, when all is said, is to them the real business of life; not to be able to fight is to be quite out of the running; and ability to solve our growing mass of public problems; questions of health, of education, of morals, of economics; weighs naught against the ability to kill.

3
This naïve assumption of supreme value in a process never of the first importance; and increasingly injurious as society progresses, would be laughable if it were not for its evil effects. It acts and reacts upon us to our hurt. Positively, we see the ill effects already touched on; the evils not only of active war, but of the spirit and methods of war; idealized, inculcated, and practiced in other social processes. It tends to make each man-managed nation an actual or potential fighting organization, and to give us, instead of civilized peace, that “balance of power” which is like the counted time in the prize ring—only a rest between combats.

4
It leaves the weaker nations to be “conquered” and “annexed” just as they used to be; with “preferential tariffs” instead of tribute. It forces upon each the burden of armament; upon many the dreaded conscription; and continually lowers the world’s resources in money and in life.

5
Similarly in politics, it adds to the legitimate expenses of governing the illegitimate expenses of fighting; and must needs have a “spoils system” by which to pay its mercenaries.

6
In carrying out the public policies the wheels of state are continually clogged by the “opposition”; always an opposition on one side or the other; and this slow wiggling uneven progress, through shorn victories and haggling concessions, is held to be the proper and only political method.

7
“Women do not understand politics,” we are told; “Women do not care for politics”; “Women are unfitted for politics.”

8
It is frankly inconceivable, from the androcentric viewpoint, that nations can live in peace together, and be friendly and serviceable as persons are. It is inconceivable also, that, in the management of a nation, honesty, efficiency, wisdom, experience and love could work out good results without any element of combat.

9
The “ultimate resort” is still to arms. “The will of the majority” is only respected on account of the guns of the majority. We have but a partial civilization, heavily modified to sex—the male sex.

Q13. The author’s main purpose in the passage is to

A.argue for women being drafted
B.criticize colonialism
C.present a pacifist philosophy
D.criticize the male-dominated society
E.protest tariffs

Q14. In paragraph 2, the author maintains that men support their position on equality for women based upon which of the following approaches?

A.begging the question
B.a syllogism using a faulty premise
C.an appeal to emotion
D.circular reasoning
E.an ad hoc argument

Q15. Using textual clues, one can conclude that androcentric (9th paragraph) most probably means

A.robot-centered
B.world-centered
C.female-centered
D.self-centered
E.male-centered

Q16. In paragraph 4, “increasingly injurious as society progresses” is reinforced by all of the following except:

A.“ill effects already touched on” [paragraph 4]
B.“active war” [paragraph 4]
C.“weaker nations to be ‘conquered’ and ‘annexed’” [paragraph 5]
D.“illegitimate expenses of fighting” [paragraph 6]
E.“Women do not understand politics” [paragraph 8]

Q17. In addition to indicating a direct quotation, the author uses quotation marks to indicate

A.the jargon of politics and warfare
B.the coining of a phrase
C.a definition
D.the author’s scholarship
E.that the author does not take responsibility for her words

Q18. According to the author, men view the primary purpose of government to be

A.educating the people
B.solving the “mass of public problems”
C.obtaining as much power as possible
D.economics
E.health

Q19. The argument shifts from a discussion of warfare to a discussion of politics in the first sentence of which of the following paragraphs?

A.paragraph 4
B.paragraph 5
C.paragraph 6
D.paragraph 7
E.paragraph 9

Q20. The tone of the passage is best described as

A.ambivalent
B.reverent
C.condescending
D.accusatory
E.indifferent

Q21. To present her argument, Gilman primarily uses which of the following rhetorical strategies?

A.process
B.definition
C.cause and effect
D.narration
E.description

The questions are based on author Ernest J. Gaines’s introduction to his 2000 short film titled An Obsession, which is about a cemetery on the Riverlake plantation that he bought and is dedicated to preserving.

An Obsession by Ernest Gaines

An obsession of mine concerns a half-acre of land in south-central Louisiana. This plot of land is surrounded by sugarcane fields on all sides, some of the rows coming within twenty feet of it. This plot of land is where my ancestors have been buried the past hundred years, where most of the people I knew as a child are now buried. This is Riverlake plantation, Point Coupee Parish, Oscar, Louisiana.
1

The first fifteen and a half years of my life were spent on this place. My ancestors for over a hundred years planted the sugarcane here, hoed the sugarcane, plowed it, cut it and, when it was time, hauled it to the mills. They, like too many others who worked this land, are buried here in unmarked graves because they could not afford the headstones.
2

A hundred years ago, the land was owned by one man who designated that the land would be a cemetery for the people on that plantation, but he did not give it to them, nor would he let them buy it. Today the land is owned by sixteen people who live all over the country and probably different parts of the world, some of whom I’m sure have never visited the plantation or know anything about the cemetery which lies there. Yet it is their land, and those who are buried there do not own even six feet of the ground.
3

Many rural cemeteries have been destroyed all over this country, and day and night I worry that the same fate may happen to this one. There is no law in the state of Louisiana that I am aware of that says it cannot be done. My wife and I and several friends from my childhood are trying to find a way to get control of the land. We have contacted lawyers to work with us and presently we are keeping the place clean of overgrowth, because that is one excuse landowners and developers use to plow under cemeteries. “We didn’t know that one was there.”
4

At a recent interview, I was asked where would I like to be buried and I answered that I’d like to be in the same place where my ancestors are. The interviewer asked me what would I like on my headstone and I said, “To lie with those who have no marks.” These are the people for whom I wrote letters as a child, read their letters because many of them could not read nor could they write. Many of them had to go into the fields before they had a chance to go to school. Yet they’re the ones responsible for my being here tonight. Not only did they encourage me to stay in school, but they, and only they, have been the source of all of my writings. I’ve said many times before that my novels, my short stories, are just continuations of the letters that I started writing for them some fifty years ago, and since I’ve tried to say something about their lives on paper— their joy, their sorrows, their love, their fears, their pride, their compassion—I think it is only my duty now to do as much as I can to see that they lie in peace forever.
5

Q22 . The exigence for Gaines’s passage is

A.the need for funding to further the author’s cause
B.the possibility that the author may lose his plantation
C.the growing possibility that the unmarked graves of slaves and other plantation workers may be lost to developers and farmers
D.a protest movement to save unmarked graves of slaves
E.the 400th anniversary of the first slave being brought into the Virginia colony

Q23. The function of the first paragraph is to

A.establish the setting of the issue Gaines wishes to address
B.begin developing the historical background of the location
C.build a contrast between the accepted importance of the plantation to the lack of care paid to the cemetery
D.emphasize that the cemetery has no name that might protect it
E.develop the personal connection the author has with the location

Q24. Which item could most appropriately be added to end the series in paragraph 2 beginning with, My ancestors for over a hundred years planted the sugarcane here . . .

A.and, when it was time, profited nothing from it
B.and, when it was time, left the plantation to pursue new lives
C.and, when it was time, were buried next to those fields
D.and, when it was time, bought their freedom
E.and, when it was time, reseeded the land for new crops

Q25. The thesis is located in which paragraph?

A.1
B.2
C.3
D.4
E.5

Q26. Which of the following is the major rhetorical strategy the author uses to support his thesis?

A.appeal to emotions through historical anecdotes
B.appeal to the audience’s sense of guilt
C.appeal to author’s credibility through personal anecdotes
D.appeal to reason through an overview of legal issues
E.appeal to the audience’s sense of historical precedence

Q27. Which of the following sentences could best be added to the end of paragraph 4?

A.The destruction of these cemeteries across the nation is an example of systematic racism.
B.It is urgent that we continue to speak up for the people buried in these cemeteries until we can find a lasting way to protect them.
C.The lack of empathy on the part of these landowners needs to be punished in the civil court system.
D.I speak to all of you today in the hopes that you will support our efforts to save these sites by contacting your local states representatives.
E.It is necessary that permanent monuments are erected in these rural cemeteries to acknowledge the forgotten.

Q28. Which of the following best describes the author’s purpose in including the following direct quotation in paragraph 5?

The interviewer asked me what would I like on my headstone and I said,

“To lie with those who have no marks.”

A.adds needed pacing
B.presents an ironic counterbalance to the direct quotation in paragraph 4
C.presents an illustration of the thesis
D.appeals to the emotions of the audience
E.emphasizes the author’s reportorial approach to his subject

Q29. The rhetorical purpose of the set of dashes used in the last sentence is to

A.supply an aside to the audience
B.provide an overview of the author’s literary works
C.provide a continuation of the list begun at the start of this sentence
D.emphasize what is stated in the sentence in the last paragraph beginning with Not only did they encourage me . . .
E.enumerate what their lives consisted of

Q30. What does the original imply that the second version does not?

A.The author will continue to write as much and as often as he can to benefit his ancestor’s memories.
B.The author will take his story to audiences across the Nation.
C.The author is thinking about running for public office to secure the rights of his Louisiana ancestors.
D.Instead of writing for and about his ancestors, the author will act on their behalf.
E.The author is retiring from writing and will work solely to support the Riverlake Plantation cemetery.

The questions are connected to the following essay written in response to a 2015 article concerned with what constitutes healthy eating.

To Eat or Not to Eat Healthy Foods

My friends and I are like the folks surveyed in a recent Reuters/Ipsos online poll. The majority favored limiting advertising of unhealthy food and soda. But, this majority also said a big NO to banning fast food restaurants. We want our drive-in burgers and tacos. How do we say “yes” to healthy foods and a healthy planet while still craving our Big Macs and fries? Several recommendations have already been made.
1

There are those who see our planet suffering from our love of beef. The carbon footprint left by our increasing “food production, processing, consumption, and waste disposal” (Hamerschlag) results in a huge amount of greenhouse gases released into our atmosphere and the pollution of our water. Our health is being adversely affected by our continued consumption of beef and processed meats. (Hamerschlag) For these groups, one possible solution would be to have everyone in the U.S. give up meat or cheese one day a week. Not counting the health benefits, they calculate the effects on emissions to be like “taking 7.6 million cars off the road.” (Ewing)
2

Groups concerned about world hunger maintain that eating meat increases the number of hungry people. Why? Ezra Klein says that it takes 16 pounds of grain to produce one pound of meat—grain that hungry people can’t eat because the grain is being sold and fed to livestock. The remaining grain is more expensive because there is less of it. What to do? For Klein and others: make meat more expensive. More expensive meat = less* meat consumption = more grain available = less hunger.
3

And, what about those who want us to eat a healthier diet? The research shows that “eating green is good for you.” (Walsh)* As previously mentioned, red meat, processed food, etc., have a high carbon footprint, and they are also high in fat and calories. A “green diet of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, fish and lean meat like chicken” is also friendly to both our own health and the health of our planet. (Walsh) Mark Bittman and many other food experts would like to see high-fat, high-calorie processed foods taxed. He sees it as a way of saving billions of dollars in health care costs and saving “millions of lives.” (Bittman)
4

It’s hard to deny the findings of recent research. It’s also hard to say “no” to burgers and fries or to that steak on the grill. Going “cold-turkey” and becoming a total vegan is not going to happen for me and not for most people in our country. Forcing it on us with high taxes and restrictive laws will only turn us into a nation of liars, sneaks, and criminals. Perhaps we can learn something from the way cigarettes have been treated in the past several decades: taxation, advertising, education, and ultimately self-interest. Right now, I’m listening to Jonathan Kaplan of the Natural Resource Defense Council who has said, “If you can’t buy a Prius, you can certainly eat like one.”
5

Q31. The writer wants to add the following sentence to the fourth paragraph to provide further information.

For instance, Thomas Walsh, the CEO of the Eat Healthy; Live Longer Institute, travels throughout the United States advocating for healthy eating.

Where would this sentence best be placed?

A.before the first sentence
B.after the second sentence
C.before the fourth sentence
D.after the fourth sentence
E.after the last sentence

Q32. The author uses which major rhetorical appeal to support and develop the thesis?

A.appeal of reason
B.appeal to emotions
C.appeal to authority
D.appeal to timeliness and opportunity
E.appeal to commonality

Q33. What is the rhetorical effect of using equal signs in the last sentence of paragraph 3?

A.continuation of the “mathematical” image
B.appeal to those who are convinced when confronted with cause and effect
C.a sense of irony
D.a sense of inevitability
E.a sense of balance

Q34. The author’s purpose can best be stated as

A.advocating for a limit on the consumption of red meat
B.highlighting some of the difficulties related to food and the environment
C.criticizing those who recommend limiting meat production
D.reviewing the current state of research about food production and its effect on the environment
E.defending those who favor high taxes on both those who produce meat and those who consume it.

Q35. In context, which choice best combines the last two sentences in paragraph 4?

A.No change
B.To save billions of dollars and “millions of lives,” Mark Bittman recommends taxing high-fat and high-calorie processed foods.
C.According to Mark Bittman and many other food experts, one way to save billions of dollars and “millions of lives” is to tax high-fat and high-calorie processed food.
D.Saving billions of dollars and saving “millions of lives,” would be the major result of taxing high-fat and high-calorie processed food, argues Mark Bittman and many other food experts.
E.To encourage people to avoid high-fat, and high-calorie processed foods, Mark Bittman and other healthy food advocate taxing these foods, which will save billions of dollars in health care and save “millions of lives.”

Q36. The logic of the fourth paragraph would be better served if the sentence beginning with As previously mentioned, red meat . . . were placed

A.at the beginning of the paragraph, before the sentence beginning with And, . . .
B.before the last sentence beginning with He sees it . . .
C.after the first sentence
D.before the next to last sentence beginning with Mark Bittman . . .
E.after the last sentence

Q37. The writer wants to more clearly introduce the thesis of the essay in the first paragraph. Which of the following versions of the first sentence beginning with My friends and I . . . would best serve that purpose?

A.No change
B.My friends and I recently saw a Reuters/ Ipsos online poll.
C.My friends and I are like most Americans when it comes to eating healthy.
D.A recent Reuters/Ipsos poll indicates Americans are looking to government to solve the questions revolving around healthy eating.
E.The results of a recent Reuters/Ipsos online poll about attitudes toward eating healthy should be of interest to us all.

Q38. In the last sentence of the first paragraph, the writer hopes to lead the reader into an examination of some of the recent research and recommendations of experts and organizations connected to healthy eating and to the environment. Which version of this last sentence best accomplishes this goal?

A.No change
B.This question and others related to healthy eating and the environment have been the subject of many research projects and recommendations.
C.Here is what some of the experts in healthy eating recommend.
D.It’s difficult to come to any conclusion about healthy eating and the environment.
E.Research seems to favor the government solving this problem.

Q39. The obvious exigence for this essay is

A.an assigned writing prompt
B.a concern for the environment
C.fear of eating the wrong foods
D.anger with climate change
E.desire to change people’s attitude toward healthy eating

Q40. Which of the following does the writer NOT assume about the audience?

A.They have eaten fast food.
B.They have had experience with paying taxes.
C.They have a working knowledge of environmental science.
D.They have an interest in protecting the environment.
E.They have an interest in eating healthy.

Q41. The last sentence of the essay beginning with Right now, I’m . . . indicates to the reader that the writer most probably

A.will find a compromise when dealing with food choices and their effects on the environment
B.is confused about what to do about food choices and the environment
C.will keep in mind the relationship between food choices and their effects on the environment when grocery shopping or eating out
D.will advocate for corporations to become more active in protecting the environment
E.will advocate for government taking a larger role in addressing this situation

The questions are based on the following letter to the editor published in Newsday on August 23, 2019.

History Evolves as Scholars Learn More

When The New York Times published “The 1619 Project” on Aug. 18, 2019, there was a backlash from conservative critics about the integrity and accuracy of the project, which aims to reframe U.S. history with slavery as its foundation.
1

Newsday columnist Cathy Young writes that “The 1619” project is “revisionist,” a common pejorative used to discredit histories that highlight negative aspects of America’s past [“A revisionist narrative of slavery,” Opinion, Aug. 20, 2019]. In Young’s view, “Increasingly, the prevailing view among progressives . . . is that the United States was founded on slavery and built on the backs of the enslaved.”
2

But all history is revisionist, as it is based on newly uncovered primary sources, scholarship, and contributions from groups—like enslaved Africans and African- Americans—excluded from previous accounts. The editors and authors of “The 1619 Project” would likely embrace the claim that theirs is a revisionist history that tells “the unvarnished truth,” in the words of historian John Hope Franklin.
3

While praising some parts of the “1619” study, Young maintains that the scholarship was questionable regarding the assertion that slavery was the cornerstone of the founding of this country and which still affects our American culture today. She writes that “we risk replacing one mythology with another that demonizes America and its achievements” and could make “ordinary Americans feel that patriotism is being made politically incorrect.” This is a false dichotomy; history isn’t a zero-sum endeavor, either patriotic or critical. It’s both, because uncovering negative aspects from the past pushes us toward a brighter future.
4

As a teacher of history, I must teach about the good, the bad and the ugly to help students think critically to understand the devastating impact of slavery and racism on our country.
5

Dennis Urban,
History teacher

This is a letter to the editor, and by definition it is brief. If the author wished to further develop this into an essay of around 500–800 words, he might consider the following:

Q42. The location of the thesis of this letter is

A.all of paragraph one
B.the last sentence of paragraph 2
C.the first sentence of paragraph 3
D.he last sentence of paragraph 4
E.all of the last paragraph

Q43. The writer is considering placing the last sentence someplace else in the letter. Considering the rhetorical situation, including the exigence, what would be the best placement?

A.as is
B.at the very beginning
C.before paragraph 2
D.before paragraph 3
E.before paragraph 4

Q44. The writer wants an effective transition from the introductory paragraph to the main idea of the text. Which of the following would best achieve this goal?

A.Leave as is.
B.One critic is a contributing editor to Reason magazine.
C.A recent edition of this newspaper published one of these conservative opinions.
D.One of these conservative writers is Newsday columnist Cathy Young who writes that . . . [sentence continues as in the original].
E.I read one of these opinions in a recent edition of this newspaper.

The writer wants to add the following sentence to the text to provide additional information.

It should be noted that “1619 Project” was published to correspond with the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first African slaves in Jamestown, the first English settlement in North America.

Q45. Where would the sentence best be placed?

A.the beginning of the first paragraph
B.the end of the first paragraph
C.the beginning of the second paragraph
D.the end of the second paragraph
E.the end of the last paragraph