Unit 2: AP English Language Faculty Lecture

Hello everybody, my name is David Jolliffe. I teach at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville and I'm going to spend a little time with you today talking about claims and evidence in rhetorical analysis. So here's the focus of our talk for the next 30 minutes or so. We're going to examine how to generate strong and effective claims and to support them with evidence, reasoning, and commentary on the rhetorical analysis question on the Advanced Placement English Language Composition examination. But even more than that, we're just going to talk about the importance of having strong claims and evidence and analytic writing in general, no matter whether it's on the AP English Language and Composition examination or in the classes that you're taking wherever you're going to school. This is what I refer to as not only the good student material but the good citizenship material. This is where people understand how do texts work, how do texts work to create meaning, purpose, and effect for an audience. (00:00 - 01:00)

So, in order to understand how to do this, how to create effective claims and evidence and commentary on the AP English Language Composition examination, it helps to understand that the examination actually calls for two different types of questions. Now, you may be saying, 'Well, wait a second, I do know that there are three free response questions on the examination. There's question one, which is the synthesis question; question two, which is the rhetorical analysis question; and question three, which is the argument question.' But even though there are three free response questions, essentially there are two types of questions. What are they? Well, question two, which we're going to focus on today, is the rhetorical analysis question, and what does it ask you to do? It calls for you to write a composition that analyzes the rhetorical choices a writer makes in order to forge a central meaning, to achieve a purpose, or to create an effect. Remember, there's that language of 'analyze the rhetorical choices that a writer is making in order to achieve meaning, purpose, or effect.' In contrast, questions one and question three call for a different type of writing, but it's a similar type in both of those questions. Question one is the synthesis question, question three is the argument question. Both of them call for an argumentative essay, one in which you take a position and then support your position with evidence, reasoning, and commentary. (01:00 - 02:20)

How are they different, you might be asking? Question one, you may recall, the synthesis question requires you to synthesize at least three of the sources that the examination gives you into your own argument, whereas question three, the argument question, requires you to tap into your own reading, observation, experiences in order to create your strong argument. So, uh, one and three are similar, just the big difference has to do with the sources of evidence that you tap into. But our focus today is going to be on question two. Now, I think it's helpful if you consider the differences between the argument questions one and three and the rhetorical analysis question. If you look at these two types, some people might call them genres of writing, in terms of five elements of the rhetorical situation. You may know that in the course and exam description for Advanced Placement English and Language and Composition, there are four big ideas: rhetorical situation, claims and evidence, reasoning and organization, and style. Well, in terms of that first major element, rhetorical situation, these two types of questions differ pretty radically. Let's look at them in terms of these five elements of the rhetoric situation: exigence, or what's sticking in the writer's craw, what does the what's the psychological motivation for the writer to write; the writer, who is the writer, what authorizes that writer to stand and deliver, who is that person; who's the audience, who's going to be receiving and responding to your writing; what's the purpose, and remember purpose is always two plus the verb, what do you want to do for your readers, what purpose do you want to achieve for your readers; and then finally context, time and place, where is it happening, when's it happening, and why is that important. (02:20 - 04:00)

So in terms of questions one and three, the synthesis and the argument, the exigence you have a hot idea you have an engaging perspective that you want to develop and share who are you as a writer you're a young writer but you want to be heard in this community of thoughtful adults you want to say i'm an up-and-coming writer pay attention to me what i have to say is important who's your audience uh in general it's a general community of attentive well-educated adults not well-educated but well-educated adults who are going to give you a hearing what's your purpose you want to persuade these readers to understand and buy into your thesis and its development and then finally what's the context the context is the present moment in the world of ideas and i always like to tell my students to think about the context of the op-ed pages of a great newspaper it's the present moment in the world of ideas you may remember that in a newspaper there's the editorial page which is generally on the left hand side of some of one of the sections you have the masthead of the newspaper itself and underneath that you have the editorial but then on the opposite page you have the op-ed columns the these columns that are written by columnists who are writing argumentative essays they are having a point they want to develop that they want to get this audience of attentive well-educated adults to buy into and to understand so the columnists on the op-ed page are pretty good models for the argument questions and in some sense it's the census question on the examination but let's focus on question two the rhetorical analysis question and your existence here what's sticking in your craw what's your psychological motivation is that you're taking a test and you need to show your examiners that you know your stuff who are you you're a high school student studying rhetoric and you want to demonstrate that you know how texts work to create meaning purpose and effect for an audience who's your audience well if you're taking the ap english language and composition examination your audience consists of high school and college teachers who know about rhetoric and who are going to check your answer for clarity and completeness they're going to say let's take a look at what this person has done to try to analyze the rhetorical choices the writer's making and see if they are clear and correct analyses of those choices what's your purpose your purpose is to demonstrate to these readers that you know your stuff about how rhetoric works you want to convince them of this and then finally who's your audience what's the context the context is the high school and the college classroom where students are expected to stand and deliver their work now notice that that these elements of the rhetorical situation for rhetorical analysis do not necessarily mean that your composition has to be dull or listy but it does need to demonstrate that you know what these elements are you need to demonstrate that you see how these elements of a text are working to forge a meaning to create a purpose or to create an effect for readers there's a wonderful book in in my field in rhetoric by andrea lunsford and andrea lunsford's book is called everything is an argument and she actually does develop this whole book on the idea that you know pretty much every text that you can see makes an argument and supports that argument. I like to amplify that just a little bit by saying that every analysis is an argument. Now you might be saying, okay wait a second, I thought analysis was a different thing, I thought argument was a different thing. Well, think about it this way, when you're writing a rhetorical analysis, you're looking at the text and you're saying let me argue that this is the main idea, let me argue that this is an appeal to character and credibility of the writer, let me argue that this is the tone, let me argue that this is the purpose. So, you are making analytic argumentative claims and then you're supporting those claims with material from the text itself. So, I differentiate what I differentiate between what I call the sources for analytic argumentative claims and the sources for and that you're using to support those claims. So, what are your sources of argumentative claims? What are you making claims about? Lots of things, first of all the main idea, you say let me argue even if you don't use the first person pronoun, let me argue that this is the main idea. You're looking at the appeals to the character and credibility of the writer, to the logical structure of the argument, and to the audience's emotions. Now, I want you to notice that I do not use here the Greek terms that many teachers do. Many teachers refer to the appeal to character and credibility of the writer as ethos, and the appeal to the logical structure for the argument as logos, and the appeal to the audience's emotions as pathos. I have no objections to Greek, but in this case, I don't like to use the Greek. It gets confusing about what's ethos, what's pathos, logos. I much prefer to have my students simply refer to what is the text doing, how is the text appealing to the character and credibility of the writer, how is the text appealing to the logical structure of the argument, how is the text appealing to the audience's emotions. So, those are sources of analytic argument into claims. You can make claims about the tone, the audience, the author's attitude towards the subject matter. Is it somber, is it humorous, is it tongue-in-cheek, is it reverential? But essentially saying let me argue that the tone is reverential, somber, whatever it is you want. You can make analytic argumentative claims about the purposes of the text. I'd like to distinguish between primary purpose and secondary purposes. Here's an example, uh those of you who are taking advanced placement English language and composition may over the course of this year get lots of letters from colleges and universities who are urging you to apply there to go to college. Well, the primary purpose of those texts is to get you to apply to the college and university, but within those texts, you may find that the the writer is sharing information about what financial aid is like, what a job placement is like, what the Greek system is like, the fraternity and sorority system is like. So, there's all sorts of secondary material going on in that they're trying to inform you about. So, the primary purpose is to try to persuade you to apply there, but the secondary purpose would be to inform you about all of these other aspects of campus life and student life there. Moving back to the list, you can make analytic argumentative claims about the writer's exigence. You can talk for example about the writer's potential depression, the type the writer's elation, the the writer's hesitancy to move forward. But notice you're making it, you're making an argumentative claim about that. You can make analytic argumentative claims about the context of the text composition and or delivery. You could take a look at for example at the Madeleine Albright speech to the uh graduates of Mount Holyoke College and talk about the time and the place that this text was given and what difference did that make. You could talk about the audiences, the immediate and primary audience or the mediated and secondary audience and I like to teach this distinction by having you think for a moment about Martin Luther King's letter from Birmingham Jail. You may remember that when Dr. King wrote the letter from Birmingham Jail he had been thrown in jail in Birmingham, Alabama and charges had been leveled against him by eight clergymen there in Birmingham who thought that he was there to cause trouble. So, his primary immediate audience were those eight Birmingham clergymen who filed the charges against him, but we still read that text to this day. I asked teachers who teach them this why did why do you till still teach that it was written in 1962, our students don't live in Birmingham, Alabama and of course the teachers very wisely tell me no, this speech is still very important today. It outlines basic principles of civil disobedience, it's a strong document about what civil rights are, it's an excellent example of rhetorical effectiveness. So, I say to them well think about that then, your students were not the immediate primary audience for this, they are mediated in time and place, it is not 1962 for them and they don't live in Birmingham, Alabama. But they are secondary to the primary and this does not mean that they're not as important as the primary but they're just a secondary audience. This is something you can say well, take a look at what does this audience think about um the emotional appeal of it, what does this audience think about the the ethical appeal. This is just an area where you can make analytic argumentative claims. So, if you want to make analytic argumentative claims about these elements, where does your evidence come from? Well, your evidence is then where you get you need to get your hands into the text, get your hands dirty with the text I want to say get your hands all the way into it and look within the text for elements that might be evidence to support your analytic argumentative claims. What are those categories of evidence? First of all, the text's details, it's anecdotes, it's narratives, it's descriptions. The text organization, what comes first, what comes second, what comes third, how does the author move from one part to the next, are there transitional words and phrases, is there a digression in the middle? You can take a look at the text diction, it's word choice, you could take a look at the text syntax, you could take a look at the text imagery and allusions. You might say wait a second, I thought imagery had to do with poetry. No, prose has imagery as well, prose can make you see a picture, hear a sound, feel some sort of tactile experience. Uh, allusions are there references to works that you assume your audience already knows. And then finally, the figurative language, the the schemes and the tropes, the things like parallel structure, I came, I saw, I conquered, a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. You could talk about parallel structure, you can talk about interruptions in the middle of a sentence, all of these things are important figures of language. You could talk about metaphors, similes, synecdoches, metonomies, anything you're learning about figurative language. All of these are sources of evidence that you can use to support your analytic argument claims. Let me give you one example of this relationship between analytic argumentative claims and text structures. When I was teaching at the University of Texas way back when, I had a student who in one of my classes was writing a personal essay about her cat's death, remember personal essay about her cat's death." (07:14 - 14:25)

and she wrote the following sentence: 'When my feline expired, I waxed lacrimos.' And I looked and I said, 'What? What are you talking about? When my feline expired, I waxed lacrimos?' Well, I said, 'What do you know, you're writing a personal essay. Why are you using such elevated language?' Well, she said, 'I thought it would make me sound important.' Well, actually, it didn't really make her sound important, made her sound kind of silly. So that then worked against her establishment of herself as a person of good character and good credibility because she sounded a little bit phony. So you see, there's that difference, there's that relationship, excuse me, between the sources of evidence, her diction in this case, and the perception that we have her as a credible writer in the situation." (14:27 - 15:02)

"So the kind of the bottom line on this relationship is this: The evidence that you tap into denotes the rhetorical choices an author makes to forge meaning, accomplish a purpose, and/or achieve an effect. So think about that. There's this relationship between argumentative claims and evidence, and that evidence are the rhetorical choices that you're asked to analyze." (15:02 - 15:18)

"So then, what should a good claim look like? Well, I give you here a paradigm of what a good analytic argumentative claim might look like, and I'll unpack these with the two examples. Author verbs and analytic argumentative claim by making a rhetorical choice. There's your kind of placeholders. The author verbs an analytic argument of claim by making a rhetorical choice. Here are two examples that might help you. One comes from a prompt that was relatively recently on one of the AP exams. It asked students to analyze a graduation address that former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice gave at Southern Methodist University. And here's a sample claim that might be in that essay: 'Condoleezza Rice establishes a strong appeal to her own character and credibility by sharing the anecdote of her not being able to see a movie in a segregated theater as a child in Birmingham, Alabama.' So you see, there's the author, Condoleezza Rice, verbs, establishes a strong argumentative claim, a strong appeal to her own character and credibility by making this rhetorical choice by sharing the anecdote of her not being able to see a movie in a segregated theater as a child in Birmingham, Alabama. One example, you see there's author verbs, analytic argument of claim by making a rhetorical choice."

"A second example, wow, this goes back to 1994, it's one of my very first years as chief reader on the AP English Language examination. And the rhetorical analysis question that year was simply Abraham Lincoln's second inaugural. This is given right before the end of the Civil War. It was 707 words, it took him about 10 minutes to deliver." (16:52 - 17:16)

"Oh, for the good old days when uh inaugural addresses only took 10 minutes to deliver. So here we are looking at what here Lincoln's purpose essentially was to say that the war really wasn't anybody's fault. We the both sides were equally at fault, and that we need to knit together and reunite the country, that was his main message." (17:16 - 17:40)

"So here's a claim that might be seen in that in that rhetorical analysis. Assuming his audience knows the biblical reference, Abraham Lincoln reinforces the altruism in his central message, concluding his second inaugural address by alluding to James 1. 'Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless as this: to look after orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted in the world.'" (17:40 - 18:04)

"Now Lincoln does not say I'm going to quote from James one now. Lincoln simply talks at the end of the trial address about taking care of those who gave the ultimate sacrifice for the war effort and for their orphans and their widows on both sides, on both the North and the South. So his use of orphans and widows is a direct allusion to James the one." (18:04 - 18:28)

"You don't necessarily need to know that, you could simply talk about the parallel structure of it, but this does actually reinforce his main message. So these are two examples of author verbs, analytic argument of claim by making a rhetorical choice." (18:28 - 18:52)

"Now you might be saying, okay, well what about that other thing by about analytic commentary? Well, usually an analytic competition calls for the students to provide one or two sentences that explain how the rhetorical choice actually does manifest the analytic argumentative claim." (18:52 - 19:16)

"You might think, oh, doesn't the evidence speak for itself? Well, it doesn't always. You may need one or two sentences to say, here's the claim I'm making, here's the evidence I'm citing, now let me have one or two sentences that draw it together." (19:16 - 19:40)

"So for example, with the Condoleezza Rice piece, you can say, 'Condoleezza Rice establishes her character and credibility by sharing the anecdote for not being able to attend a movie in a segregated theater in Birmingham, Alabama.' You might want to say that by simply by saying, 'I have been through this experience myself before, and showing her own personal experience, Condoleezza Rice automatically becomes a more character, more credible character for the readers of her essay who are graduating from college themselves and looking for a new world of experience.'" (19:40 - 20:04)

"So one or two sentences of commentary that would follow these, that claim evidence combination really would draw together as really effective rhetorical and rhetorically analytic writing along the way." (20:04 - 20:28)

"So before we end, let me share with you two types of analytic argumentative claims to avoid in your writing. Um, as you as you go through rhetorical analysis, the one I call rather tongue-in-cheek is the U claim. You might think I'm making fun of you, I'm not um, but I'm saying that that the claims are sometimes you know a student might be reading along and find a very interesting piece of uh formal diction or may find you know an interesting anecdote." (20:28 - 20:52)

"So the student says there's some interesting diction. Well, I always want to say to the students, so what? So what is that interesting diction, an interesting word choice doing to establish and enliven the main idea? What is that interesting diction doing to appeal to character and credibility of the writer or to logical structure or to emotions?" (20:52 - 21:16)

"How does this, how does this interesting diction affect the audience's emotions and therefore how they might act in response to the thesis? How does this uh interesting diction help put forward the purpose in a better way? So you always want to make that connection between things like um organization, diction, syntax, imagery, figurative language, details." (21:16 - 21:40)

"You always connect those back to whatever analytic argument the claim you're making. There's another one, there's a metaphor, well so what? What's that metaphor doing to support your analytic argumentative claim? The other type of analytic argument of claims to avoid is what I call the author uses pathos, ethos, and logos claim." (21:40 - 22:04)

"Notice that the appeals, pathos, ethos, logos, or appeal to emotions, appeal to character and credibility, and appeal to the logical structure. These are elements that you, the analyst of the prose, notices. They are generally not something that the writer intentionally inserts into the text." (22:04 - 22:28)

"I can't imagine that Abraham Lincoln would say, 'Oh, I need to pause here and insert some pathos,' or I can't imagine uh Condoleezza Rice saying, 'I better use some logos here.' No, they're just writing their pieces. She's writing the uh graduation address, he's writing the second inaugural." (22:28 - 22:52)

"But what you see is you can see something that enables you to argue that a certain rhetorical choice would appeal to an audience in a certain way. So you might want to say that um Condoleezza Rice's anecdote about not being able to attend a movie as a child can be seen as an appeal to her own character and credibility." (22:52 - 23:16)

"So it's something that you see rather than something that the author does automatically and on purpose. As you wrap up this thinking, as we wrap up this lecture, let's think a bit about where does this material with rhetorical analysis fit into everything we do." (23:16 - 23:40)

"Well, as I mentioned on the examination, there is a single question, that's the rhetorical analysis question. But if you think about where else it exists, you understand what an important skill this is to be able to do solid rhetorical analysis. There are two types of multiple-choice questions on the examination now." (23:40 - 24:04)

"One of them, now called the reading questions, are essentially multiple-choice questions about rhetorical analysis. When you're writing the synthesis question, you need to do a quick rhetorical analysis of the sources to see which ones might support your own position." (24:04 - 24:28)

"And when you're writing your argument question, I'm hoping that what you do is you write a very interesting essay that then you can share with your colleagues, share with your friends, and they in turn can do a rhetorical analysis of your own composition and say what choices are you making as a writer to achieve meaning, purpose, and effect for your readers." (24:28 - 24:52)

"So this good student, good citizenship skill certainly works with the examination, but it also works in the culture that we live in. That this is an ability that I'm hoping that more and more citizens of the world can learn something about because this will help them understand that here are the texts that surround them in the world." (24:52 - 25:16)

"Here are the texts that work, here the text that don't work. For those that work, how and why do they work? And this is really the ultimate question you ask when you do rhetorical analysis. Thanks very much for being with me today. It's been a pleasure to spend some time with you. Good luck in your studies, good luck on the AP examination, and be wise and be safe." (25:16 - 25:40)