Unit 1: AP English Language Faculty Lecture with Professor Irene Clark

Professor Irene Clark: "Hello everyone, I'm Professor Irene Clark and I teach writing and I teach writing teachers at California State University, Northridge. Today I'm going to talk to you about several terms that will help you with your writing not only in your English classes but in all of your classes. Those terms are exigence and genre, and we're going to add a few more terms too that are related to these terms. These are the terms that we will focus on in today's lecture: exigence, rhetoric, rhetorical situation, and genre. When you know these, you will have greater insight into how to approach writing assignments that you get in any class. The exigence... it sounds like a fancy word, but it really means the need or the occasion why you are writing. What makes you write on this particular topic? What gives rise to the argument? And assignments in writing classes at the university are sometimes called arguments. They're not arguments like you might think about having with a friend or with your parents. Argument means that you have a main point and you are supporting it with compelling evidence. And usually, the exigence is the problem or the question or the need as to why you might be writing about this topic in the first place. Here's an example: Do sports enhance learning? Many of you probably play sports and maybe you enjoy playing sports, but do sports enhance learning or do they detract from learning? That might be the exigence about which you could write a paper in a writing class. Here's some more examples of an exigence: Should the voting age be changed? At the moment it's 18. Should it be raised to 21? Maybe it should be lowered. How about soda machines and candy machines in schools? Should they be banned? How about the driving age in California? People can drive at the age of 16. Should it be raised to 18? I bet there are people who think so. That is the example of an exigence. Now what is rhetoric? Sometimes people think that the word rhetoric means something that doesn't mean anything. They say, 'Ah, that's just rhetoric.' But really, rhetoric refers to writing that is used to persuade, inform, or educate. Ancient Greek philosophers such as Aristotle considered rhetoric a serious form of writing and speaking that was oriented toward influencing an audience. Aristotle said that rhetoric is finding the available means of persuasion. That is, what can you say, what can you write that is going to have your audience or your readers say, 'Wow, that's a pretty good idea. That's an idea that's worth considering.' So here are these terms again: rhetoric, exigence, and now we're going to introduce one that's related to those two, the rhetorical situation. A rhetorical situation is a situation that can be changed through writing or speaking, and of course, the effective use of rhetoric. Although not all writing is persuasive, when you understand how the writer, the audience, and the situation interact in the creation of an effective text, then you will be able to decide what to put into that text, how to make it more effective. For example, supposing there is a terrible heat wave. You can't stop that heat wave, but through writing or speaking, you can convince people that there are certain behaviors they can engage in to help themselves stay safe during the heat wave, ways of staying cool, ways of not over-exerting themselves. We do this all the time. There are certain situations that are not rhetorical. You can't do anything about them, like the weather, but you can use rhetoric to help people understand how to behave during certain weather conditions. Those conditions are a rhetorical situation. Here's some other examples: You get an envelope in the mail, and there are pictures of some really cute puppies and kittens. Okay, you know what's coming. There's an animal shelter, and they want you to contribute money to the animal shelter. Do they say that to start with? No, they first show you pictures of cute little puppies and kittens, and so you're already on your way to saying, 'Yeah, maybe I'll give some money to that animal shelter.' That's rhetoric. So here's an example: You open your letter. Does the letter say, 'This letter is to get you to contribute money to this animal shelter'? Probably not. You read that sentence, you'd say, 'Oh boy, another letter wanting me to contribute money,' and you might not even read the rest of the letter. But supposing the letter began, 'Each day, Rover and Fluffy sit in their cages in the shelter. Their eyes are filled with longing. All they want is for someone to give them a loving home, and soon your wallet opens. Funds for caring for them will run out, and the shelter will have no choice but to euthanize them.' Somebody else opens the wallet. All of a sudden, when you see in your mind those poor little creatures, then you know that this may be something that you want to contribute to. But if you use the first sentence, it might not work nearly as well. So when the person writes the letter and sends it to you, they are using a type of genre. A genre is a chosen mode of communicating information, and it follows expected rules and moves of that particular mode or type of text. We saw in the previous slide, we didn't use the sentence, 'Open your wallet and give me money.' They used the sentence describing the sad state of Fluffy and Rover. That's the genre of the letter asking for money. You start with something that is going to make the person feel something, care about something. It's became a genre because it works. That's how genres come into being. They work. Genres address a need or an exigence. If you go into a restaurant, the waiter will hand you a menu. They won't hand you, I hope, a letter asking you to contribute money to an animal shelter. In a class, the teacher will hand you a syllabus. The teacher will not hand you a menu. Both the menu and the syllabus are genres. They came into existence to address an exigence or need. The menu, of course, to show you what you can choose to eat, and the syllabus to give you an idea of what is expected in a particular class. Those came into existence because they fulfilled a need for exigence. Okay, so exigence refers to the purpose of a particular genre, what the writer is trying to accomplish. And in a writing class, you're often being asked to write an argument. So the purpose is what the writer is trying to accomplish by writing the argument or the reasons why the writer is using it. And this can be used to help you understand your reading as well. When you read something, you might say, 'Hey, what is the writer trying to do here? What is the exigence? What is the need? Why did the writer decide to write this?' Okay, so we referred to the rhetorical situation, and now we are moving into a further discussion of genres. When I go around and I say I study genres, they often think that I'm talking about literary genres. And you know about literary genres because you've probably studied them in your classes. They are usually defined by textual regularities in form and content. You can usually recognize them, and they're usually in mutually exclusive categories, like poems, short stories, or plays. But when we talk about genres in writing classes at the university, we may be talking about literary genres, but we're often talking about what we sometimes call real-world genres, genres that are used other than for literary purposes. Academic genres address a rhetorical situation, a situation that can be changed by writing or speaking. And it is important for you as a student to choose the most appropriate genre. And that's a big issue for entering students because when we ask students to write an analysis of a short story or an analysis of a film, sometimes they don't write an analysis, they write a summary. So it's important to think about what genre is really being asked of you when you are given a writing assignment in a class. And that choice will depend on the writer, and the audience, and the situation. These are things to think about when you decide what genre you are going to be using. So the choice of a genre depends on, it's based on a purpose. It affects the writer, it affects the concept of the intended audience, and it affects the style and the form. Here, when we talk about the intended audience, think about that letter about the animal shelter. You're not going to write to a group of people who dislike dogs and cats. You're going to write to people who love dogs and cats. And when we talk about the writer, you want to come across as a very sympathetic person, somebody who really does care about dogs and cats. And I bet most of you do. And of course, the genre will affect the style you use. You're not going to use a bullet point in a letter asking for money. And it is going to affect the form that you use. You might include a picture of a cute little puppy or a cute little cat. And that isn't something that you're not going that you're not going to do if you are writing a business memo. Okay, so getting back to the writer, that's you. The role, the stance, or persona the writer is expected to assume when he or she writes an argument. And that's very important because you have many selves and many styles. You can think about, how do you want to come across? Do you want to come across as sympathetic, stern, strong, helpless? How do you want to come across when you write for a college class? And then the audience, who are you writing for? And that's really tricky because some students think, and with good reason, they think that they're writing their essays just for their teacher. But they're not. Yes, the teacher is going to read it and grade the essay that you write, but the teacher is really a representative of the kind of person that you are writing for. If you were just writing for the teacher, you could just write, 'Dear teacher,' as if in a letter. But that's not what you're being asked to write. Usually, you're being asked to write an essay. And so you have to pretend that you're writing for your teacher as a representative of the type of people you are writing for, not just that particular person. I often say to my students, 'You are writing as if you left your essay on a table in the library, and you expect that whoever picks it up, if they are reasonably literate, will be able to figure out the purpose of it and why it was written.' Okay, so the letter about Rover and Fluffy would have to be addressed to someone who cares about animals. An essay in a writing class would have to be addressed to someone who is very much like your teacher. Now, you are already familiar with many, many genres, more than you probably think. And what another point to know about genres is that they are structured often in a way that we sometimes call moves. That is, this part goes first, this part goes second, this part goes third. They are structured that way because they work, maybe psychologically, maybe emotionally, maybe for some other reason. Now, for example, think of an ad on TV. We're talking a lot about dogs today. Think of a picture on the TV, somebody is cuddling a dog. Then think about the dog gobbling up food in a dish. Do you know what's going to come next? You probably can predict what the ad is intended to do. Advertise a particularly delicious type of dog food that's healthy, will make your dog strong, and even more beautiful than he or she already is. And that's the way these ads work. Those are genres, and they work that way because that's the way they get people to buy the dog food. So here's another example of a genre. You know, some of you have probably watched the Academy Awards. Congratulations, you have just won an award for Best Actor or Actress. And it is now time to give your speech. So you have five minutes to write it, and you can pause the tape now and write that speech. You can then compare in class whether or not your speeches are similar. My guess is that they are because a congratulations and an acceptance speech is a genre that has certain familiar moves. And you are familiar with those moves, even if you hadn't really thought about writing an acceptance speech before. All texts have written moves. All texts that are familiar and are used in familiar contexts have moves. And if you understand what those moves are, then you'll be able to write with greater insight and greater authority. Even Oscar acceptance speeches have moves. So people, keep your eyes out for the moves in what you read. Why is a particular piece of text here at the beginning, as opposed to something that's in the middle? Why? What does that do? What is the effect on an audience? And how did it become to be that way? It's not just arbitrary. Genres come into existence because they work, just like the Oscar acceptance speech. So what does this have to do with writing in a college class? There are various kinds of writing at the university. When students are assigned to write essays in college, they are usually expected to include a main point that we sometimes call a thesis. Sometimes this is referred to as an argument. And you would be surprised, a lot of students, and I'm not just talking about high school students or college students, I'm talking about PhD students, I'm talking about professors, sometimes they've got a lot of information, but they don't have a main point or a thesis. This main point or thesis is sometimes referred to as an argument. Now, we sometimes think of the word argument, as I mentioned, as referring to a personal disagreement, as in having an argument with a friend. But an argument in a college class is your main point, the main reason that you are writing, and how you are addressing the exigence that motivated the writing in the first place. Argument in college classes address an exigence, that is, a need, a problem, an idea about which there is some disagreement. In order for an essay to have a main point, it has to address an exigence. No exigence, no point. I have a colleague who yells at the beginning of every class, 'Where's the exigence?' And that is something to keep in mind, even though you don't have to yell it. Okay, so how do you get your topics? Sometimes topics are assigned, you're just told to write about a particular topic, and you look into it and you come up with a main point. Sometimes students are provided with issues that have generated controversy, and sometimes students have opinions already about topics. For example, sometimes students write about whether being online a lot on social media is harmful in some way. That's a very popular topic at the university. Does it prevent them from doing much reading? Is it unduly influential? There's a lot to write about, and there are a lot of books and articles being written about that topic. You may know a lot about it already. For example, Nicholas Carr wrote an article that's sometimes assigned in college classes. It's called 'Is Google Making Us Stupid?' and he talks about the effect on attention span. He says people are no longer able to concentrate. Here's another topic: Are fairy tales too scary for young children? If you've ever read some of the early Grimm or Andersen tales, some of them are a bit scary. Should we not tell them to young children? Or this is one that's been talked about a lot: Do fairy tales promote the idea that little girls need to be princesses? Now, what's wrong with being a princess sounds okay sometimes, but they also have to be strong and able to do what they need to do for themselves and not expect to be rescued by some prince that comes galloping in on a horse. Do fairy tales do this? That's a topic, a topic that sometimes is assigned in a writing class. Even essays about literature will address an exigence. Sometimes an essay about literature will address a problem or a controversy. Sometimes there are critical debates about the meaning of a short story or a poem. An essay concerned with that story or poem will be addressing that debate, and the debate is really the exigence, and that is often what is assigned in a number of college classes and probably in a number of your classes already that you've already taken. Okay, so how do you find out what to write about? That is a big topic that I won't address too much now, but basically, we talk about the importance of entering a conversation. Now, what conversation? The conversation usually occurs because people have written about it. So when you do research on a topic, you are listening, even though you're not really listening, you're actually reading. You're listening to the conversation in the various texts you're reading, and then after you've gotten different ideas, you'll come up with your own idea. You might say, 'Hey, I agree with this particular idea,' or 'I'm not sure I agree, I agree only to some extent, you should consider this,' or you might say, 'I disagree entirely.' And that would be the way in which you enter the conversation about whatever topic you are writing about. So think about the terms that we discussed today in this little lecture. We talked about exigence, we talked about rhetoric, we talked about the rhetorical situation, and we talked about genre. When you write, think about these terms, and when you read, think about those terms. Most importantly, think about how they could apply to what you are currently writing. Thank you."
