  Each year , millions of animals are used in animal testing experiments in the UK alone. ( pie chart) These animals are often subject to pain and - cruelty that leads to death and serious, often untreated injury. The experiments these animals are used in also do not often generate applicable results, which brings up an important question: Is animal testing really necessary? I believe not, as it does not provide significant gains while causing distress to countless animals without consent. 
  Animal testing is far, far less effective than most people think. In the words of a former National Cancer Institute director, Dr. Richard Klausner , " We have cured mice of cancer for decades, and it just simply didn't work in humans (PETA ). Many procedures that are desmed "successful on mice, rabbits or monkeys in't successfully achieve their desired effect on humans due to brologred differences, At least 85 HIV/AIDS vaccines were successful in nonhuman primate studies, yet none worked on humans [PETA). Perhaps we should earn a lesson and stop going to animal testing for every new substance 
  Also, there are many animals who have been discovered to have sentience, higher cognitive capacities, and other moraly relevant features of living beings (Nuffield) so the allegation that "humains and animals are not on the same scale"(Derbyshire) is simply an excuse to avoid a guilty conscience, Lab animals used In research are often kept in cramped cages and fed cheap , insufficient diets , denying them a chance to live a natural life, while being subject to painful, stressful tests with little to no precautions towards reducing their pain We must reflect on our unfair treatment of animals and not ignore the suffering of other beings if they are not human. 
  Most importantly, humans do not have a direct means of communication with animals, Due to this, We cannot reliably discern how much suffering animals endure or even obtain consent from them ( Haggerty). If we cannot conduct medical tests on humans without voluntary consent, then we should abstain from experimenting on animals because they have not given consent. If we seek to protect children and the disabled from harmful acts without snowing consent, then we should protect animals by the same standard (Haggerty). Putting an end to animal testing is putting an end to a widespread form of hypocrisy. 
  There are many ways everyday people without connections to the greater scientific community can help and animal testing and cruelty - boycotts, protests, petitions and much, much more, Ignorance is just as much a vice as aporthy, as it allows acts of cruelty to be committed without backlash. Recognizing, preventing, and ending systematic abuse in the form of animal testing is a large step forward in moral progress, a large step which we are ready to take with conviction, determination, and a clear conscience.