For an artist to achieve the highest position in the history of human culture, they must 
have a number of circumstances going their way.   It must be a significant moment in 
ashirai history and in the development of the craft.   Ludwig van Beethoven was born 
in a family of professional musicians in Bonn in the Rhineland.   He learned the 
rudiments of music from his father and was later taught by the best musicians in the 
court.   From the first, his genius impressed all with whom he came in contact. 
  The first decade of his career was characterized by youthful exuberance, by a proud 
consciousness of his own powers.   Then, just as he was beginning to realize his 
ambitions, fate struck a staggering blow.   He, who had been hailed as the most 
promising musician of his time, began to lose his hearing. 
  Fifty-seven years later, as a crusty old bachelor, so deaf he couldn't hear his own 
music played by a full orchestra, yet still able to hear thunder, he shook his fist at the 
roaring heavens for the last time and died.   He died as he had lived, challenging God 
and defying the universe.   He was Defiance Incarnate.   For instance, encountering 
a Grand Duke and his court in public, his hat was jammed down on his head while 
striding through the aristocratic entourage.   He had the manners of a disobliging 
steamroller (most steamrollers are abjectly obliging and conciliatory); and he was rather 
less particular about his dress than a scarecrow.   In fact, he was once arrested as a 
tramp because the police authorities refused to believe that such a tatterdemalion could 
be a famous composer, much less a temple of the most turbulent spirit that ever walked 
the streets of Vienna, Europe's musical capital. 
  Beethoven was only nineteen when the French Revolution electrified Europe. 
  That event aroused visions of liberty, fraternity and equality that he carried with him 
for the rest of his life.   It struck at the heart of the established order.   Young 
Beethoven, a rebel by temperament, became one of thousands all over Europe to whom 
revolutionary stirrings held out the promise of a new order.   He adopted as his motto 
the thoroughly republican sentiment, “Freedom above all!" 
  That Beethoven's spirit was turbulent is beyond question.   The impetuous fury 
of his strength, which he could quite easily contain and control but often would not, goes
beyond anything of the kind to be found in the works of other composers. No other
composer has ever melted his hearers into complete sentimentality by the tender beauty
of his music, comprised of serene and memorable themes and motifs that are typically
Beethovian.Nobody but Beethoven could govern Beethoven; and when, as it happened 
when the fit was on him, he deliberately refused to govern himself.

Questions: 
25. In order to begin the passage with a standard English sentence that is both related to the textand accords with the writing style and tone of the passage that follows, which of the followingwould be the best replacement for the underlined section of sentence 1 (reproduced below)?
For an artist to achieve the highest position in the history ofhuman culture, they must have
a number ofcircumstances going their way.
(A) circumstances should be lined up
(B) they should have circumstances in their corner
(C) a number of circumstances must coincide
(D) the circumstances for him or her must be right
(E) similar circumstances and conditions should prevail

26.The writer wants an effective transition between sentences 2 and 3 (reproduced below)-thatis, between the opening of the passage and the introduction of the person who'll be the focusof the passage.
(2) It must be a significant moment in cultural history and in the development ofthe craft(3) Ludwig van Beethoven was born into a family ofmusicians in Bonn in the Rhineland.
Which of the following best achieves that purpose?
(A) Prayers were answered precisely during the heyday of two famous classical composers,
Haydn and Mozart.
(B) Somebody appeared in the history of music at precisely the right time.
(C) At the time there were several candidates.
(D) These conditions were ideally filled with the arrival of an Olympian figure in musical
history.
(E) It seems that the circumstances were outstanding at this significant moment.

27. In sentence 14 (reproduced below), which of the following versions of the underlined textcoincides with the writer's portrait of Beethoven?
In fact, he was once arrested as a tramp because the police authorities refused to believethat such a tatterdemalion could be a famous composer, much less a temple ofthe most tur-bulent spirit that ever walked the streets of Vienna, Europe's musical capital.
(A) (no change)
(B) believed that every man must be the master of his own fate
(C) suffered through childhood with an overbearing alcoholic father
(D) found expression in pure sound
(E) acquired numerous musical jobs, among them, an assistant organist in a chapel

28. The writer wants to add emphasis to the claim made in sentence 11 (reproduced below),adjusting capitalization as necessary, to give greater credence to the evidence that follows
He was Defiance Incarnate.
Which of the following best achieves that goal?
(A) Yes, he definitely was Defiance Incarnate.
(B) Unquestionably, he was Defiance Incarnate
(C) Was he Defiance Incarnate? Absolutely!
(D) Indeed, he was often referred to as “Defiance Incarnate.
(E) Everybody used to call him Defiance Incarnate.

29. To back up the claim made in sentence 1l, the writer wants to revise sentence 12 (repro-duced below) by providing a pertinent anecdote.
For instance, encountering the Grand Duke and his court in public, his hat was pulleddown over his ears while striding through the aristocratic entourage.
Which of the following versions of sentence 12 best serves the purpose?
(A) (no change)
(B) To prove the point, his hat was defiantly pulled down over his ears one day when hestrode through the aristocratic Grand Duke and his court after meeting them in the streetone day.
(C) One day, for example, he encountered the Grand Duke and his court in the street. Notonly didn't he step aside, he pulled his hat down over his ears and strode right throughthe middle of the entourage.
(D) One day, to cite a for instance, Beethoven encountered the Grand Duke and his aristocrat court in public. Defiantly, then, he strode through the entourage and pulled downhis hat to cover his ears.
(E) One day, the Grand Duke and his court encountered Beethoven in public. Defiantly, hepulled his hat over his ears and strode directly through the aristocratic entourage.

30. The writer is thinking about adding the following sentence to the fourth paragraph (sen.tences 15-19) to provide more information about Beethoven's life.
Although Vienna was a far cry from Paris, no place is wholly insulated against time.
Where would the sentence best be placed?
(A) (leave it out)
(B) Before sentence 15
(C) After sentence 15
(D) After sentence 16
(E) After sentence 17

3l. In sentence 22 (reproduced below) the writer wants to provide a convincing detail to illus-
trate Beethoven's impetuosity.
No other composer has ever melted his hearers into complete sentimentality by the tenderbeauty ofhis music, comprised of serene and memorable themes and motifs that are typicallyBeethovian.
Which version of the underlined text accomplishes this goal?
(A) (as it is now)
(B) exploiting various sounds created by instruments that had been used since the
Renaissance
(C) regularly employing traditional tempos and rhythms for both soloists and the string and
brass sections of the orchestra
(D) and then suddenly turned on them and mocked them with derisive trumpet blasts for
being such fools
(E) often writing musical passages that have become instantaneously recognizable by classi.
cal music devotees

32.The writer wants to end with a thought that brings closure to the passage and also reflects itscontent. Which of the following best accomplishes that goal?
(A) That's the way most geniuses are.
(B) Naturally, he didn't follow this pattern in every sonata, quartet, concerto, and symphony
he wrote.
(C) Meanwhile, however, he made musical history.
(D) You might say that the world is a better place because of that.
(E) He was ungovernable.

Correct answers:
25. C
26. D
27. D
28. C
29. C
30. A
31. D
32. E

My answers:
25. C
26. D
27. A
28. B
29. B
30. B
31. A
32. E