  
You can live a lifetime and, at the end of it, know more about other people than you know
about yourself. You learn to watch other people, but you never watch yourself because you
strive against loneliness. If you read a book, or shuffle a deck of cards, or care for a
dog, you are avoiding yourself. The abhorrence of loneliness is as natural as wanting to
live at all. If it were otherwise, men would never have bothered to make an alphabet, nor to
have fashioned words out of what were only animal sounds, nor to have crossed continents —
each man to see what the other looked like.
Being alone in an aeroplane for even so short a time as a night and a day, irrevocably
alone, with nothing to observe but your instruments and your own hands in semi-darkness,
nothing to contemplate but the size of your small courage, nothing to wonder about but the
beliefs, the faces, and the hopes rooted in your mind — such an experience can be as
startling as the first awareness of a stranger walking by your side at night. You are the
stranger.’
It is dark already and I am over the south of Ireland. There are the lights of Cork and the
lights are wet; they are drenched in Irish rain, and I am above them and dry. I am above
them and the plane roars in a sobbing world, but it imparts no sadness to me. I feel the
security of solitude, the exhilaration of escape. So long as I can see the lights and
imagine the people walking under them, I feel selfishly triumphant, as if I have eluded care
and left even the small sorrow of rain in other hands.
It is a little over an hour now since I left Abingdon. England, Wales, and the Irish Sea are
behind me like so much time used up. On a long flight distance and time are the same. But
there had been a moment when Time stopped — and Distance too. It was the moment I lifted
the blue-and-silver Gull from the aerodrome, the moment the photographers aimed their
cameras, the moment I felt the craft refuse its burden and strain toward the earth in sullen
rebellion, only to listen at last to the persuasion of stick and elevators, the dogmatic
argument of blueprints that said she had to fly because the figures proved it.
So she had flown, and once airborne, once she had yielded to the sophistry of a
draughtsman’s board, she had said, ‘There. I have lifted the weight. Now, where are we
bound?’ — and the question had frightened me.
We are bound for a place thirty-six hundred miles from here — two thousand miles of it
unbroken ocean. Most of the way it will be night. We are flying west with the night.’
So there behind me is Cork; and ahead of me is Berehaven Lighthouse. It is the last light,
standing on the last land. I watch it, counting the frequency of its flashes — so many to
the minute. Then I pass it and fly out to sea.
The fear is gone now — not overcome nor reasoned away. It is gone because something else
has taken its place; the confidence and the trust, the inherent belief in the security of
land underfoot — now this faith is transferred to my plane, because the land has vanished
and there is no other tangible thing to fix faith upon. Flight is but momentary escape from
the eternal custody of earth.

1. The rhetorical purpose of using the second-person pronoun you wirdie opening lineser passage is meant primarily to 
(A) explain how difficult it is for people to understand themselves. 
(B) show that the speaker refuses to admit she's thinking of herself. 
(C) create the effect that the writer is addressing "you," the reader. 
(D) indicate that the narrator is giving advice to an undefined audience. 
(E) comment on the human experience, particularly the narrator's own. 

2. In lines 3-4, the speaker makes a hypothetical statement about loneliness primarily to 
(A) make a point about the dynamics of interpersonal relationships. 
(B) introduce the idea that pain is part of the human condition. 
(C) account for the need to be active in various endeavors. 
(D) generalize about why we are interested in stories of other people. 
(E) provide examples of everyday activities. 

3. In line 9 and after, the writer constructs three sentences that begin with "nothing to (followed by a verb) but. .. . " The effect of this repetition is best described by which of the following? 
(A) It simulates the monotony often experienced on long, uneventful airplane flights. 
(B) It heightens readers' anticipation to learn what the narrator will substitute for the rejected verb. 
(C) It adds surprise to the narrative, an element meant to entertain readers. 
(D) It dramatizes a crucial motif of the passage-the narrator's sense of discovery. 
(E) It adds to the adventure of crossing three thousand miles of water in a small airplane. 

4. The rhetorical purpose of switching from second-person to first-person narration in line 12 is mainly to 
(A) explain the meaning of "You are a stranger" (line 12). 
(B) indicate that until then the narrator hasn't been thinking only about herself. 
(C) give an example of the "abhorrence of loneliness" (line 4). 
(D) emphasize that the narrator acknowledges how alone she now really is. 
(E) prove that the narrator is an accomplished pilot. 

5. The rhetorical function of the phrase "sobbing world" (line 15) Is primarily to  
(A) describe the rain outside the airplane. 
(B) suggest the pulsating sounds of the airplane engine.  
(C) explain the sadness of lonely people. 
(D) reveal the narrator's affection for the Irish people far below.  
(E) indicate that flying serves as a release from everyday cares. 

6. In context, lines 8-18 ("Being alone ... in other hands) could be used to support which of the following claims about the writer's tone? 
(A) Her tone while describing her solitude in the sky is buoyant. 
(B) Her tone when looking down at cities below is sentimental. 
(C) She adopts an awed tone when referring to the darkness outside. 
(D) She adopts a nonchalant tone when contemplating her courage. 
(E) She adopts a reverent tone when referring to people on the ground below. 

7. The sentence in line 20 ("On a long ... same") has all of the following rhetorical functions EXCEPT 
(A) to present information about the way pilots tend to think. 
(B) to introduce the anecdote that follows in lines 20-28. 
(C) to illustrate how pilots on long solo flights sometimes may become disoriented. 
(D) to help contrast the tedium of long-distance flying with the thrill of taking off. 
(E) to explain the phrase "like so much time used up" (line 20). 

8. Which of the following best characterizes the writer's decision to undertake a long solo flight? 
(A) The irony of flying solo in order to escape loneliness 
(B) The need to overcome fears of inadequacy 
(C) A means to escape from routine 
(D) An effort to assuage feelings of self-doubt about her capabilities 
(E) An amorphous desire to make a name for herself 

9. All of the following interpretations explain the rhetorical purpose in line 21 of capitalizing "Time" and "Distance" EXCEPT 
(A) to support the narrator's previous claim that on long flights "distance and time are the same" (line 20). 
(B) to indicate that suddenly becoming airborne is the equivalent of a metaphysical moment that, in effect, transforms reality. 
(C) in the context, to emphasize the significance of the moment when the plane became airborne. 
(D) to imply that during a solo flight Time and Distance assume the stature of a deity in the mind of a pilot. 
(B) to suggest that Time and Distance become virtually palpable during the experience of flying solo. 

10. In the third paragraph (lines 19-28), which of the following rhetorical strategies is mos prominent? 
(A) Emphasizing sensual imagery 
(B) Using abstract generalizations 
(C) Mixing facts and impressions 
(D) Appealing to authority 
(E) Employing periodic sentences 

11. The primary rhetorical effect of the paragraph in lines 29-33 is to 
(A) satisfy readers' curiosity about the purpose of the flight. 
(B) build admiration for the narrator by describing her ambitious flight plan. 
(C) enrich the passage by contrasting the narrator's impressions with factual material. 
(D) give credence to such ideas as "the exhilaration of escape" (line 16) and feeling "selfishly triumphant" (line 17). 
(E) indirectly explain with facts and figures what motivates the narrator to fly. 



 