Research in the field of earthquake engineering is required, especially in places
with a high to moderate seismic activity like California.  The lessons learned not
only in 1906 but also during the 1957 and 1989 San Francisco quakes have shown
Line the devastating effects, although at longer distances than previously known, due to
extensive periods of shear waves.  Hence, earthquake engineering research must
become a priority, driven mainly by the need to predict future quakes, but also to
find solutions for mitigating their effects.
 This sort of interest in research did not exist on April 18, 1906, when a powerful
earthquake centered just off the coast grabbed San Francisco by the throat at 5:12 a.
 and nearly shook it to death.  The magnitude 7.8 quake arrived in two pulses, the
second more powerful than the first.  “It hurled my bed against an opposite wall,
and smashed the windows.  Glass shards covered the floor,” wrote Emma Burke,
the wife of a local attorney.  Above all, she recalled the deafening noise.  It was
intense.  It grew increasingly louder and louder,  There was the crash of dishes.
  And pictures fell from the walls.  There was the rattle of the flat tin roof, too.
 “Actually,” she noted long afterwards, “the groaning and the straining of the
building itself made such a roar that no one noise could be distinguished.”
 The tragedy was compounded by the great number of people and buildings
which were concentrated along the path of the fault.  The destruction caused by
 the quake and the ensuing fire in the Italian Quarter resulted in the complete loss of
much of the city, including the Italian Quarter, which, like other parts of the city hit
by the disaster, had been reduced to a knotted, tangled mass of bent steel frames,
charred bricks, and ashes.  In North Beach, only a small part of the community
remained,  The Italians on ‘Telegraph Hill, occupied by large numbers of
Italians had been luckier than most, although they suffered losses since insurance
companies were not interested in insuring remote areas of the Hill.  The scattered
fire hydrants and water cisterns were not to be found east of Dupont Street, and the
insurance companies were not willing to gamble.  It was reported in the Italian
press that some 20,000 Italians lost their homes in the conflagration.
  One of the priests from the church of Sts. Peter and Paul had managed to save
the consecrated host, vestments, and holy vessels. And said Mass under the inflamed
sky. After the fires died, the Italians quietly returned to North Beach and tried to find
the confidence to rebuild Little Italy.
 Approximately five to six hundred Italians had definitely left SF due to
 this tragic event, while over six thousand new immigrants arrived and helped the
survivors clear the ruins.  Seven hundred building permits were granted to
North Beach Italian residents and businessmen to expedite the construction of
the Colony.  Several real estate firms, such as the J. Cuneo Realtors in North
Beach, demonstrated their confidence in the determination of the Italians.  This
 hastened the rebuilding process.

41. Which of the following sentences, if placed before sentence 1, would both attract
readers’ attention and provide an effective introduction to the ensuing paragraph?
(A) Most people who have experienced an earthquake don't want to do it again.
(B) After one disastrous day in April 1906, a single scientific principle became self-
evident:
(C) For safety and feelings of well-being, seismic hazard assessment is a necessity
everywhere on earth.
(D) The earthquake risk implication for many regions in the U.S. and throughout the
world is alarming.
(E)_ Losses from natural hazards like earthquakes are rapidly growing, and the
projected trends are unsustainable.

42. The writer wants to include a word or more at the beginning of sentence 4
(reproduced below), adjusting for capitalization as needed, in order to give the
passage a more personal tone.

This sort of research and concern did not exist on April 18, 1906, when a powerful
earthquake centered just off the coast grabbed San Francisco by the throat at 5:12 a.m.
and nearly shook it to death.

Which of the following would best achieve that purpose?
(A) Because
(B) Without any doubt,
(C) Certainly,
(D) With regret,
(E) Alas,

43. The writer portrays Emma Burke's experience 
(sentences 9-14) using several short sentences 
(reproduced below) written as though each event had been discrete. Without changing the basic meaning, the writer now wants to revise the text to suggest that those Incidents occurred as one brief but frightening cataclysm.  
(9) It eras intense. 
(10) It grew increasingly louder and louder. 
(11) There was the crash of dishes. 
(12) And pictures fell from the walls. 
(13) There was the rattle of the flat tin roof too. 
(14) "Actually," she noted long afterwards, "the groaning and the straining of the building itself made such a mar that no one noise could be distinguished."  
Which version of those sentences best achleves that gual?  
(A) It grew louder and louder-terrifyingly so-when all at once dishes and pictures crashed to the floor, the tin roof rattled, and the building itself strained and gmaned.  
(B) The terrifying noise was intense when all of a sudden our dishes crashed to the floor and pictures fell off the walls as the rattling of the flat tin roof and the strain and groan of the building was frightening.  
(C) The intense noises were terrifying and grew suddenly Jouder with the crash of dishes and pictures on the wall while the building's tin roof rattled and the building itself strained and groaned.  
(D) The Increasingly loud noise grew louder and louder as dishes fell from the shelves and pictures dropped to the floor, just as the rattle of the flat tin roof, the groaning and strain- ing of the building Itself intensified the terrifying noise.  
(E) Adding to the terror was the intensifying noise of crashing dishes, pictures falling, the rattling of the flat tin roof, and the building itself straining and groaning.  
44. The writer wants to add more information to the third paragraph 
(sentences 15-29) to sup- port the main intent of the paragraph. All of the following pieces of evidence would help to fulfill this purpose EXCEPT which one?  
(A) The burning of hazardous material and its effects on health  
(B) Statistics about injuries, hospital admissions, and deaths  
(C) The complete shutdown of transportation systems and its consequences  
(D) A map showing population density throughout the city  
(E) Hair-raising stories about couriers who worked in zones without communications  
45. The writer notices a gap in continuity between sentences 24 and 25 
(reproduced below), and for the sake of coherence wants to provide an appropriate idea to fill it.  Several real estate firms, such as the J. Cuneo Realtors in North Beach, demonstrated their confidence in the determination of the Italians. This hastened the rebuilding process,  Which of the following choices best meets that goal?  
(A) Mortgage rates for new home purchases were deliberately left low.  
(B) The company held fun-filled fundraising events to publicize the plight of many Italian families.  
(C) They invested $400,000 in the reconstruction of apartments, stores, flats, and business offices  
(D) Zoning laws were discussed at public meetings of the City Council.  
(E) To show good will, several Italian real estate agents were hired.

Correct answers:
41 B
42 E
43 A
44 D
45 C