Passage 5
  What a relief it was six years ago, to be promoted to work in the office of the
superintendent after a decade grappling with fifth-graders as a classroom teacher. For
the first time, I got the opportunity to do something about educational issues from
pre-K to 12th grade that had long plagued our district.
  Over time, I observed changes that adversely affected the level of education in our
schools. I had seen them, been part of them - and above all, grew tired of them. But as
the superintendent, I am super-confident that we - meaning you, the citizens of
Springhill, and we, the staff of our schools - are up to the task of raising the
standards we hold dear.
  I don't question for a moment why I wanted this responsibility, even as I'm tasked with
making budget reductions even while the district is so under-resourced. I love this
community deeply, and I'm inspired daily by educators' dedication and our children. I
know our district has had its challenges. But I also know that we're ready to re-write
the story.
  It's time we finally address these issues; from systemic financial challenges and
under-enrollment, to teacher retention and quality schools across Springhill. I'm
committed to fundamentally changing how the district does business, and ready for
every opportunity to rethink and reallocate where we spend money for Springhill's
students. Change will be difficult, but the outcome makes it imperative: high-quality
community schools in every neighborhood!
  Our ability to invest more in our schools is on the horizon. Looking at the overall
picture of the future, the bottom line that lies ahead will require a series of
re-arrangements of school configurations. Such changes can be expansions to larger
facilities. Closures that will de-inventory some of the district's present-day existing
buildings. Last but not least, consolidations to be rolled out more or less about five
years down the road.
  It will be tough, painful work. If we don't make these changes now, we will create
conditions that will better serve our children long into the future. If we don't make
these changes, we run the risk of the state taking control of our schools, an action that
could have dire consequences. I believe from the bottom of my heart that it's possible
to serve all students and I am ready to set the trajectory to secure this future for our
children. To make this happen, we need to make sure and guarantee that every school is
adequately staffed and has sufficient resources. Above all, we must have high-quality
teachers, administrators, and support personnel whom we compensate competitively. A
faction in the community strongly opposes regular pay increases, asserting that annual
salaries are already too high for a ten-month job that includes weeks of vacation time.
  Being the superintendent is not a one-person show, so I invite the community to the
table for this dialogue. Please reach out to me if you'd like to be part of the solution
for the future of Springhill's schools. I work for you, and I am listening.

Questions:
40. Which of the following sentences, if placed before sentence l, would capture the interest ofreaders and provide an effective introduction to the topic of the passage?
(A) As a parent myself, I'm interested in making our schools as good as they can be.
(B) Now,in my sixth year as superintendent of Springhill's schools, you probably want to
know our plans for the future.
(C) When I became superintendent of the Springhill School District, it was a dream come
true, even though I knew the road ahead would be tough.
(D) I was born and raised in Springhill, where I attended school from K to 12.
(E) The urge to be a school superintendent is like having an itch so annoying you've got to
scratch it.

41. After sentence 3, the writer wants to cite a symptom of the district's educational decline
Which of the following would best achieve that goal?
(A) Twelfth graders graduating from high school got accepted more at state institutions than
at private and prestigious ones.
(B) Greater college acceptances occurred from state institutions than from prestigious, pri
vate ones.
(C) Prestigious private institutions accepted fewer seniors than did state universities and
colleges.
(D) In the past, 80 to 90 percent of our Honor Society seniors were accepted at prestigiousprivate colleges; this year the percentage fell to 60.
(E) Applicants to state colleges and universities received acceptances larger in quantities
than prestigious, private institutions

42. The writer is concerned about the ambiguity of sentence 9 (reproduced below).
But I also know that we're ready to re-write the story.
In the context, which of the following interpretations best articulates and is also most consis.
tent with the main point of the passage?
(A) (leave it as it is)
(B) Nevertheless, it's time to go where our district has never gone before.
(C) But let us not forget the past while planning for the future.
(D) However, we can use lessons of the past to plan the future
(E) But don't dwell on the past; instead, focus on the future.

43.The writer thinks that sentences 15-18 (reproduced below) form a vague, longwinded, jar-
gon-filled, hard-to-follow statement.
(15) Looking at the overall picture of the future, the bottom line that lies ahead will requirea series ofre-arrangements ofschool configurations. (16) Such changes can be expansions tolarger facilities. (17) Closures that will de-inventory some ofthe district's present-day existingbuildings. (18) Last but not least, consolidations to be rolled out more or less about five yearsdown the road.
In the context, which of the following versions best eliminates the writer's concerns and alsosupports the basic meaning ofthe passage?
(A) To meet the demands of the next five years, the district must expand, combine, and
eliminate some of its facilities.
(B) Looking five years into the future, some of the district's buildings will require expansion
elimination,or re-configuration.
(C) Planning for the next five years must include re-configuring the district's facilities by
expanding,eliminating, or re-configuring some of them.
(D) The meeting of demands during the next five years necessitates that some district buildings will be required to being expanded,eliminated, or re-configured.
(E) Within the next five years' time, some district buildings must undergo expansion, elimi.nation, or re-configuration to meet future demands.

44.At the end of sentence 20 (reproduced below) the writer wants to provide a persuasive argument for avoiding a state takeover of the schools.
Ifwe don't make these changes, we run the risk of the state taking control ofour schoolsan action that could have dire consequences.
Which version of the underlined text best accomplishes this goal?
(A) a condition that would force the district to abandon plans to reduce class sizes and
expand after-school tutorial and enrichment programs.
(B) a step that will encourage the growth and expansion of charter schools.
(C) an action that is very damaging to democracy in our district.
(D) a move that is likely to cause discontent and conflict in our school community.
(E) a policy that nullifies laws saying and guaranteeing every child the right to a free
education.

45. The writer wants to rebut the claim alleged in sentence 24 that teachers are overpaid. Whichone of the following ideas would be least effective in achieving this purpose?
(A) Reading a letter of gratitude from the parent of a child who received after-school help in
writing a college application essay from her English teacher
(B) A personal anecdote about having been a teacher and buying classroom supplies
because of the school's limited budget
(C) Citing statistics about the hours that teachers spend commuting because they can't
afford to live in the district
(D) A description of a third-grade class in which nine of thirty-two children speak languages
other than English at home
(E) Explaining that a third of the district's teachers are paying off student loans

Correct Answers:
40. E
41. D
42. B
43. A
44. A
45. E

My Answers:
40. B
41. D
42. B
43. A
44. D
45. D

