(1) When you consider the whole historical evolution of science, it might be Ww
divided three ways: antiquity; classical science, starting with the Renaissance; and Lal
modern science, which started at the turn of the twentieth century. (2) In the West, for
Line example, for more than two-thousand years, scientists subscribed to a classification uw
(5) system devised by the Greek physician, Hippocrates. (3) His theory was that one’s S)
innate psych-physical constitution was determined by the relative predominance _
within one’s body of one of the four “humors’—blood, phlegm, black bile, and yellow F
bile. (4) This humoral pathology persisted into the nineteenth century. (5) What best 1S)
qualifies the science of antiquity, however, is the naive faith in the perfection of our <x
(10) senses and reasoning. a
(6) What man saw was the ultimate reality. (7) Everybody, being by necessity the a
center of their universe, knew there was no doubt that ours is a flat earth and man
is the center. (8) There is an “up” and “down,” an absolute space, as expressed in
Euclidean geometry. (9) Human reasoning was thought to lead to more reliable
(5) results than crude trial and experiment, as reflected by the dictum of Aristotle that a
big stone falls faster than a small one. (10) What is remarkable about this statement
is not that it is wrong, but that it never occurred to Aristotle to try it. (11) He probably
would have regarded such a proposal as an insult.
(12) Around two millennia later the Renaissance arrived. (13) It was a great
(20) awakening. (14) The Western mind experienced something new. (15) It was the
time when Galileo, a boisterous young man, lived in Italy. (16) One day he climbed
a leaning tower while carrying a big stone as well as a smaller one. (17) He dropped
both of them off the top, but first he had asked friends to stand at the bottom and
observe which stone landed first. (18) They arrived at the same instant.
(25) (20) This same man, doubting the perfection of his senses, later built a telescope
to improve the range of his eyes, and thus discovered the rings of Saturn and the
satellites of Jupiter. (21) This was a dramatic discovery. (21) Galileo was but one
of the first swallows of an approaching spring. (22) Somewhat earlier, Copernicus
had already concluded that it was not absolutely necessary to suppose that the sun
(30) rotates around the earth; it could be the other way around. (23) Johannes Kepler
agreed. (24) Using simple observation, reasoning, and careful measurement, the
earth was found to move around the sun, not vice-versa.
(25) Somewhat later Antony van Leeuwenhoek, a greengrocer at Delft, in Holland,
improved the range of his senses by building a microscope. (26) With it he discovered
a new world of living creatures too small to be seen by the naked eye. (27) Thus began
the science which I will call “classical,” which reached its peak with Sir Isaac Newton,
who with the concept of gravitation, made a coherent system of the universe.
(28) This classical science replaced divine whims by natural laws, corrected
many previous errors, and extended man’s world into both the bigger and smaller
(40) dimensions, but it introduced nothing new that man could not “understand.” (29)

By the word “understand” we simply mean that we can correlate the phenomenon

in question with some earlier experience of ours. (30) IfI tell you that it is gravitation

= which holds our globe in the sun, you will say “I understand,” though nobody knows

Ke what gravitation is. (31) All the same, you “understand” because you know that it is

uw (45) gravitation which makes apples fall, and you have all seen apples fall before.

Ww (32) For several centuries, this classical science had little influence on everyday

Eb life. (3) Soon after, the scientific community began to speak optimistically about
finding the secret of life. (34) It became obvious over time that the secret of life

w was not to be had by a little casual experimentation, and that life in today’s terms

(6) (50) appeared to arise only through the medium of pre-existing life.

5 (35) Yet, if science was not to be embarrassed by some kind of mind-matter

BE dualism, the emergence of life had, in some way to be accounted for. (36)

(s) Nevertheless, as years passed, the secret remained locked in its living jelly, in spite

< of larger microscopes and more formidable means of dissection. (37) The mystery

(55) was heightened because it was discovered that the supposedly simple amoeba was
es already a complex, self-operating chemical factory.

e (38) With the failure of many efforts, science was left in the half-embarrassing
position of having to postulate theories of living origins which it could not
demonstrate, or at the very least they thought the next generation would be in

(60) a position to do so. (39) Around the end of the nineteenth century (1896), two
mysterious discoveries signified the arrival of a new period, the period of modern
science. (40) One was that of Wilhelm Roentgen, who discovered new rays which
could penetrate through solid matter. (41) The other was the discovery of radioactivity
by Antoine Henri Becquerel, a discovery which shook the solid foundation of our

(65) universe, built of indestructible matter.

26. The writer wants the first sentence of the passage (reproduced below) to catch the reader's interest and provide a succinct introduction to its topic. 
When you consider the whole historical evolution of science. it might be divided three ways: antiquity; classical science, starting with the Renaissance; and modern science, which started at the turn of the twentieth century. In the West, for example 
Which version of the underlined section of the passage best achieves this goal? 
(B) Today's scientists argue that their discipline has had three important periods in history: 
(A) (as it is now) 
(C) The history of science is composed of three periods: 
(D) The history of science may well be summarized by dividing it into three periods- 
(E) Science has a history comprising three distinctive periods, namely:

27. In order to provide a more effective transition between sentences 1 and 2, the writer wants to replace part or all of the underlined section of sentence 2 (reproduced below). 
In the West, for example, for more than two thousand years, scientists subscribed to a clas. sification system devised by the Greek physician, Hippocrates. 
In the context, which would be the best choice? 
(A) At first, 
(B) For above two-thousand years in the West, 
(C) During more than two-thousand years, in antiquity 
(D) For example, during antiquity, which lasted more than two-thousand years, 
(E) In antiquity, a period longer than two-thousand years, 

28. The writer wants to highlight the primary features of the science in antiquity, and also add to the coherence of the discussion. To do so, the writer plans to revise sentence 5 
(reproduced below) What qualifies the science of antiquity is the naïve faith in the perfection of our senses and reasoning. Which version most effectively serves this purpose? 
(A) What epitomized the science of antiquity is the naïve faith in the perfection of our senses and reasoning. 
(B) What best characterized the science of antiquity, however, was the naïve faith in the per- fection of our senses and reasoning. 
(C) However, the best quality of the science of antiquity was the naïve faith in the perfection of man's senses and reasoning. 
(D) What best characterizes the science of antiquity, however, may have been the naïve faith In the perfection of our senses and reasoning. 
(E) What best characterizes the science of antiquity, however, was a belief, however inno- cent, in the perfection of our senses and of our reasoning.

29. After reading the draft of the passage, the writer singled out an excerpt 
(reproduced below) to be revised without altering its essential meaning.  
(12) Around two millennia later the Renaissance arrived. 
(13) It was a great awakening. 
(14) The Western mind experienced something new. 
(15) It was the time when Galileo, a boister- ous young man, lived in Italy. 
(16) One day he climbed a leaning tower while carrying a big stone as well as a smaller one. 
(17) He dropped both of them of the top, but first he had asked friends to stand at the bottom and observe which stone landed first.  
Which version of sentences 12-17 best achieves those objectives?  
(A) After about two-thousand years, the arrival of the Renaissance seemed to awaken the Western mind. Take as an example a boisterous young man in Italy. Galileo by name, one day he decided to carry two stones-one was big and one was small-up to the very top of a leaning tower. After previously having asked friends to observe which stone landed on the pavement first, he dropped them simultaneously.  
(B) Two thousand years later, during that great awakening of the Western mind now called the Renaissance, Galileo, a boisterous young Italian, climbed a leaning tower carrying two stones, one big and one small. Having asked companions to observe which stone landed first, he dropped them simultaneously.  
(C) Approximately two thousand years afterward, upon the arrival of the Renaissance, a great awakening took place in Western minds. Take, for example, the case of a young boisterous Italian named Galileo. To illustrate that the Western mind had experienced a new transformation, one day Galileo climbed up a leaning tower while carrying both a big stone and a smaller stone. From the top of the tower, he dropped both of them, but first he had asked friends to stand at the bottom and report to him which stone hit the ground first.  
(D) Approximately two thousand years afterward, upon the arrival of the Renaissance, a great awakening took place in Western minds. Take, for example, the case of a young, boisterous Italian named Galileo. As an example that the Western mind had experienced something new, one day he tried an experiment and climbed a leaning tower carrying a big stone and a smaller one. He dropped both of them off the top, but first he had asked friends to stand at the bottom and watch for which one landed first.  
(E) Around two millennia later the Renaissance came into history. It was a great awakening. The Western mind experienced something new. It was the time when Galileo, a boister- ous Young man, lived in Italy. One day he climbed to the top of a leaning tower. He car- ried both a big stone and a smaller one. From the top he dropped both of them at the same moment. Beforehand, however, he had asked a couple of friends to stand at the bottom and to observe which stone landed first.

30. In sentence 21 the writer claims that the sighting of the planets' features was "dramatic" But left unsaid is what made it so. Which of the following sentences provides the best explanation?  
(A) This was a dramatic discovery as a result of no one knew that the rings and moons existed before.  
(B) This was a dramatic discovery because no one had seen the features and moons earlier  
(C) This was a dramatic discovery because nobody knew they had been there before.  
(D) This was a dramatic discovery since the true facts about the rings and moons were not known before.  
(E) This was a dramatic discovery; the rings and moons surprised everybody.  

31. Sentences 23 and 24 
(reproduced below) tell us that Kepler supported Copernicus's findings.  
(23) Johannes Kepler agreed. 
(24) Using simple observation, reasoning, and careful mea- surement, the earth was found to move around the sun, not vice-versa.  Which of the following versions best establishes the writer's position on the nature of Kepler's contribution to the expansion of scientific knowledge?  
(A) 
(as it is now)  
(B) Kepler confirmed Copernicus's theory. Using simple observation, reasoning, and careful measurement, the earth was found to move around the sun, not vice-versa.  
(C) Kepler confirmed Copernicus's theories that the earth moved around the sun using sim- ple observation, reasoning, and careful measuring, not vice-versa.  
(D) Kepler used simple observation, reasoning, and careful measurement to prove that the earth moved around the sun, not vice-versa.  
(E) With the use of observation, reasoning, and careful measurement, the sun was found by Kepler to support Copernicus's theory about the earth's movement.  

32. An attentive reading of the passage suggests a disconnect in thought between sentences 32 and 33 
(reprinted below).  
(32) For several centuries, this classical science had little influence on everyday life. 
(33) Soon after, the scientific community began to speak optimistically about solving the secret of life.  Which of the following sentences would best fill that gap?  
(A) At that moment qualified scholars and researchers began to speak optimistically about solving the secret of life.  
(B) By the beginning of the 1900s, and then during two wars and the Great Depression, you'd hardly hear a peep about it.  
(C) In search of funding, researchers appealed to government and private sources.  
(D) An intellectual elite, however, wanted to look deeper into Nature's cooking pot.  
(E) On philosophical and moral grounds, some religious and conservative groups began an effort to squelch research.

33. "the writer wants to add a phrase at the start of sentence 37 
(reproduced below), adjusting the capitalization as needed, to set up a comparison with the idea expressed in sentence 36.  The mystery had been heightened because it was discovered that the supposedly simple amoeba was already a complex, self-operating chemical factory.  Which of the following achieves this purpose?  
(A) As it happened,  
(B) Furthermore,  
(C) What is more,  
(D) Fortuitously,  
(E) By contrast, 

correct answers:
26 C
27 E
28 B
29 B
30 E
31 D
32 D 
33 A 

