Passage 4
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen
A privilege accorded me is that of coming to this meeting in order to extend to each and
every one of you a sincere welcome on behalf of the Government of the United States.
The purpose of our meeting is one that is essentially local or community-based. But
when any particular activity in the United States takes 38,000 American lives in one
year, it is transformed into a national problem of the first importance. I refer, of course,
to the horrific annual death toll on our nation's streets and highways. This conference
has been called, and you have heeded the call with an understanding between us that
this is not merely a local and community problem. It is a problem for all 256AP ENGLISH
LANGUAGE AND COMPOSITION of us, from the highest to the lowest echelon of
government and for every citizen of our great land. Studies of traffic fatalities contain
startling statistics, among them one that seems especially dire: During the past fifty
years, traffic accidents killed more people than wars. We have organizations and laws
that presumably work effectively to promote safety on the road - or at least try to
minimize the danger. But you will probably agree, in view of the loss of lives, the bodily
harm, and the incalculable suffering of victims and their survivors, we haven't done
enough. Obviously, it is now a long-standing problem which by its nature has no easy
solutions. The building of the biggest infrastructure project in American history, the
proposed interstate highway system, will not only improve driving safety, but will also
be of huge benefit to the United States economy. Throughout the country, road-building
companies are already starting to hire thousands of workers. Best of all, however, it will
save lives because safety is of primary importance. The roadways will be smooth and
wide, with landscaped dividers separating lanes of opposing traffic. There will be limited
access. In rural areas, entrances and exits may be dozens or more miles apart. Imagine
that you and your family might drive from Maine to Florida or from New Jersey to
Texas, and never meet a stop light. Of course, all of us recognize that the reality of this
idealized vision is still years away. After today's meeting, most of us will get into our
cars, pull out of the parking lot, and face the driving hazards and hardships of today.
Yet each one of you can contribute something to traffic safety in your community,
whether you are driving a car or crossing the street. Everyone starts learning attitudes
from their families. Children are taught to look both ways, a habit that lasts a lifetime.
After all, safety is an essential part of parenting, and family roles help permanently to
shape people's lives. I do believe, as is often said, that “It takes a village”. In other
words, both families and communities can foster not only safe driving habits but also
pedestrian awareness. Organized community groups command respect and thereby win
the support of everyone who values public safety. Public opinion will do the rest.

Questions:    
33. The speaker wants to greet the audience (sentence l, reproduced below) in a cordial, concisebusiness-like manner.
A privilege accorded me is that ofcoming to this meeting in order to extend to each andevery one ofyou a sincere and cordial welcome on behalfofthe Government of the United States
Which of the following versions best achieves that purpose?
(A) (as it is)
(B) It is a high honor and distinct personal privilege to welcome you here this morning onbehalf of the government of the United States.(C) Hello and welcome. Thanks a lot for accepting your government's invitation to this con
ference. We really appreciate you being here today.(D) You have come from all corners of America to be here today. When you go back home, )
hope you'll feel so very, very thrilled that you had come here to this meeting.(E) I am happy to see you here today and thank you, on behalf of our government, for com-
ing to this important conference

34. the pupose of sentences 2 and 3 (reproduced below) is to jusnly the convening ot thaon ference.
(2) the purpose ofour meeting is one that is essentially local or community- based. (3) nuaen eary particder aceial pr the  nted States takes a, 00 Amertean teta baed.(c2) Bawinsormed like a national problem of the first importanoo
Ihich of the following versions of the underlined section does that most efectkveta
(A) (as it is)
(B) the priority about how to resolve it needs a change
(C) its character changes it into a first- rate national problem
(D) the results are being felt across the country
(E) it becomes a nation-wide concern

35. the speaker wants to add a word or phrase at the star of sentence s (reproduced below) adjusting for capitalization as needed, to set up a cause-and-effect relationship wimn tme ides
in sentence 4.
This conference has been called, and you have heeded the call with an understanding be
fween us that it is not merely a local and community problem.
which of the following best achieves this goal?
(A) For this purpose only,
(B)In the interests of halting the carnage
(C) Between us,
(D) Consequently,
(E) To support the government's cause

36. While reading this draft, the writer thinks that the meaning of sentence 8 (reproduced below) may be misunderstood or misinterpreted.
During the past fifty years, traffic accidents killed more people than wars.
Which of the following versions of the underlined text would solve that problem?
(A) (as it is)
(B) wars had killed fewer people than traffic accidents
(C) the chances of dying in traffic accidents are greater than those in war.
(D) deaths in traffic accidents outnumbered deaths in war.
(E) more deaths occur in traffic accidents than occur in war.

37. Between the third and fourth paragraphs-i.e, between sentences ll and 12 (reproducedbelow)-the writer, for the sake of coherence, wants to add a sentence with two functions:first, to serve as a transition between paragraphs and, second, also to introduce the topic ofthe new paragraph.
(Il) Obviously, it is now a long-standing problem which by its nature has no easysolutions.
(12) The building ofthe biggest infrastructure in American history, the proposed interstatehighway system, will not only improve driving safety, but will also be ofhuge benefit to theUnited States economy.
Which of the following best serves that purpose?
(A) No sensible person can honestly say, well, all we need are more traffic cops, more traffic
lights, safer cars, and tougher licensing requirements.
(B) However, under the leadership of our president, this bleak picture will soon begin
brightening.
(C) But the U.S, the most resourceful country on earth, ten years ago led the world into the
Atomic Age and ended World War Il.
(D) At this time in our history, such a dilemma is positively archaic, and we have no choice
but to deal with it intelligently.
(E) The time is ripe for government officials to sit down with auto-industry manufacturers
and unions and do something about it.

38. In sentence 13 (reproduced below), the writer wants to provide a convincing argument whythe new road system will be an economic boon to the country.
Throughout the country, road-building companies are already starting to hire thousands of
workers.
Which version ofthe underlined text best accomplishes this goal?
(A) (as it is)
(B) people with city jobs will no longer have to live in the city.
(C) as more people drive, automobiles will come with many more built-in safety features
and lower gas prices.
(D) tourists will stop along the highway to buy gas, have picnics, and see the sights.
(E) the system will allow people to cross long stretches of countryside in a hurry.

39. The writer wants to add the following sentence to the last paragraph (sentences 22-27).Teens, sometimes reluctantly, emulate their parents' safety habits
Where would the sentence best be placed?
(A) (leave it out)
(B) Before sentence 23
(C) After sentence 23
(D) After sentence 24
(E) After sentence 25

Correct answers:
33. E
34. E
35. B
36. D
37. B
38. A
39. C

My answers:
33. B
34. E
35. D
36. D
37. D
38. A
39. C