I am not excessively fond of salads or fruit, with the exception of melons. My
father hated every kind of sauce; I like them all. Eating too much makes me uncomfortable;
but in respect of its properties I am not yet very certain that any kind of food
Linedisagrees with me. Nor have I noticed that I am affected by full or new moons, by
autumn or spring.
We are subject to fickle and inexplicable changes. For example, radishes, which
I first found to agree with me, afterwards disagreed, and now they agree again. In
several things I have found my stomach and palate to vary in the same way: I have
changed more than once from white wine to claret, and back again from claret to
white wine.
I have a dainty tooth for fish, and the meatless days are my meat-days; my fasts
are my feasts. Besides, I believe that it is, as some people say, more easily digested
than meat. As it goes against my conscience to eat meat on fish-days, so my taste
rebels against mixing meat and fish; the difference seems to me too wide.
From my youth up I have occasionally skipped a meal; either to sharpen my appetite
for the next day (for, as Epicurus used to fast and make lean meals in order to
accustom his greed to dispense with plenty, I do so, on the contrary, in order to train
my greed to take better advantage of plenty and to enjoy it more cheerfully); or I used
to fast to keep my strength for the performance of some mental or bodily action; for
both my body and mind are made cruelly sluggish by repletion. . . . To cure my ailing
digestion, I say that we should not so much look to what we eat as to whom we eat
with.
To me no dressing is so acceptable, and no sauce so appetizing, as that derived
from good company. I think it is more wholesome to eat more at leisure with a
good friend, and less, and to eat oftener. But I would give hunger and appetite their
due; I should take no pleasure in dragging through three or four wretched repasts a
day, restricted by doctors' orders. Who will assure me that I can recover at suppertime
the good appetite I had this morning? Let us old men especially take the first
opportunity that comes our way. Let us leave the making of dietaries to doctors and
almanac makers . . . .
I do not cover my legs and thighs more in winter than in summer: simple silk hose.
For the relief of my colds I gave way to the habit of keeping my head warmer, and my
belly on account of the colic. But in a few days my ailments became accustomed to
them and scorned my ordinary precautions: from a cap I advanced to a kerchief, and
from a bonnet to a lined hat. The wadding of my doublet is now only ornamental.
All that would be of no avail unless I added a hare's skin or a vulture's plumage, with
a skull-cap for the head. Continue this gradual progress and you will go a long way.
I shall take care not to do so, and would gladly go back to where I began, if I dared.
"Have you developed a new ailment? Is the remedy no longer of any avail? You
have grown accustomed to it? Then try another." In this way they ruin their health
who allow themseves to be fettered by enforced rules, and superstitiously adhere to
them; they need more and more, and after that more again. There is no end.


1. **Which of the following best describes the rhetorical function of the last sentence of the first paragraph (line 4)?**  
   (A) It helps to establish the speaker's credentials as an expert on the topic of the passage.  
   (B) It challenges a commonly held superstition to be discussed later in the passage.  
   (C) It introduces a major theme in the passage.  
   (D) It refers to an old saying about the consequences of overeating.  
   (E) It creates a rhetorical link between paragraph 1 and the first sentence of paragraph 2.

2. **The writer's rhetorical purpose in alluding in line 4 to "full and new moons" and also to seasons of the year is primarily to**  
   (A) Acknowledge his awareness that some foods are not available all the time.  
   (B) Admit that some common superstitions may have merit.  
   (C) Confess that he's occasionally fallen prey to irrational decision making.  
   (D) Ridicule the notion that the moon and seasons guide our eating decisions.  
   (E) Reject the idea that food choices need to vary according to the months and seasons.

3. **Describing his culinary preferences in lines 1-8, the writer's primary purpose is to**  
   (A) Outline standards for pleasurable eating.  
   (B) Stress that regularly changing one's diet is good for you.  
   (C) Flaunt his tendency to change his diet whenever he wants.  
   (D) Urge the members of his audience to vary their food choices.  
   (E) Describe a diet that his audience may do well to emulate.

4. **The speaker's references to radishes and to claret (lines 5-8) function in all the following ways EXCEPT to**  
   (A) Prove the validity of the second paragraph's topic sentence.  
   (B) Identify the changes that the speaker has experienced.  
   (C) Define the word “fickle" (line 5).  
   (D) Add to the litany of the speaker's personal quirks.  
   (E) Hint that the speaker has switched from a serious to an ironic tone.

5. **The description of the speaker's "dainty tooth for fish” (line 9) contributes to the unity of the passage by**  
   (A) Contrasting the tastes of two different foods.  
   (B) Adding further details to the speaker's self-portrait.  
   (C) Condemning those who do not observe meatless days.  
   (D) Drawing a parallel between different kinds of cooking.  
   (E) Commenting on the absurdity of the speaker's taste in food.

6. which of the following best describes the rhetorical function of lines 21-25:
   (A) They serve as a transition between the paragraphs that come both before and after.
   (B) They support the speaker's assertion that he likes all sauces (line 2).
   (C) They provide evidence contrary to material in the previous paragraph.
   (D) They reiterate an idea presented in a previous paragraph.
   (E) They state a logical conclusion based on statements in the previous paragraph.

7. The writer's main rhetorical purpose in lines 22-26 (starting with "But I would give hunger..."):
   (A) To argue that his advanced age accounts in part for his culinary eccentricities.
   (B) The amount one eats is more important than what one eats.
   (C) One should give physicians their due as responsible guides regarding what one should and should not eat.
   (D) After a lifetime of eating whatever he desired, there is no reason to change now.
   "Doctors and almanac makers" (line 26) help people like the speaker to age gracefully.
   
8. In order to leave a rhetorical effect on his audience, the speaker overstates some of his thoughts. In context, which of the following excerpts is the idea most exaggerated?
   (A) "From white wine to claret, and back again" (line 8)
   (B) "Body and mind are made cruelly sluggish" (lines 17-18)
   (C) "Three or four wretched repasts a day" (line 23)
   (D) "From a bonnet to a lined hat" (lines 30-31)
   (E) "A hare's skin and a vulture's plumage" (line 32)

9. Drawing contrasts is an effective rhetorical strategy. The principal contrast drawn by the speaker throughout the passage is between 
   (A) Theory and fact.
   (B) Conventions and individual preferences.
   (C) Old wives' tales and modern practices.
   (D) Youth and old age.
   (E) Restraint and freedom.
   
10. In context, which of the following statements accurately describes the writer's tone?
   (A) His tone when discussing salads and fruits (line 1) is hypercritical.
   (B) He uses a vacillating tone when talking about radishes (lines 5-6).
   (C) When the subject is meat and fish (lines 11-12), he adopts a peevish tone.
   (D) The tone of his comment on skipping meals (line 13) is conciliatory.
   (E) The tone of his reference to dinner companions (lines 20-21) is compassionate.
   
11. The rhetoric in the passage creates a portrait of a man who can best be described as
   (A) Shamelessly self-absorbed.
   (B) Well educated.
   (C) Adaptable to change.
   (D) Cultured and sophisticated.
   (E) Pious and self-righteous.  

12. The passage as a whole can best be described as:
   (A) an authority's prescription for a better diet.
   (B) an anecdote about old-fashioned eating customs.
   (C) an account of one man's culinary preferences.
   (D) a comparison of the speaker and his father.
   (E) a reflection on unhealthful eating habits.
   
13. In the context of the passage, all of the following excerpts contain the same rhetorical device EXCEPT:
   (A) "I first found to agree with me, afterwards disagreed” (lines 5-6)
   (B) "changed... from white wine to claret, and back again” (lines 7-8)
   (C) "not so much look to what we eat as to whom we eat with” (line 19)
   (D) "eat more at leisure with a good friend, and less, and to eat oftener" (lines 21-22)
   (E) "they need more and more, and after that more again” (line 37).

Correct Answers:
1. E
2. D
3. C
4. E
5. B
6. D
7. A
8. E
9. B
10. B
11. A
12. C
13. E

My Answers:
1. E
2. D
3. C
4. B
5. E
6. D
7. E
8. E
9. B
10. C
11. A
12. C
13. D