The prevailing taste of the public for anecdote has
been censured and ridiculed by critics, who aspire to
the character of superior wisdom: but if we consider it
in a proper point of view, this taste is an incontestible
(5)proof of the good sense and profoundly philosophic
temper of the present times. Of the numbers who study,
or at least who read history, how few derive any advantage
from their labors! The heroes of history are so
decked out by the fine fancy of the professed historian;
(10)they talk in such measured prose, and act from such
sublime or such diabolical motives, that few have sufficient
taste, wickedness or heroism, to sympathize in
their fate. Besides, there is much uncertainty even in
the best authenticated antient* or modern histories;
(15)and that love of truth, which in some minds is innate
and immutable, necessarily leads to a love of secret
memoirs and private anecdotes. We cannot judge either
of the feelings or of the characters of men with perfect
accuracy from their actions or their appearance
(20)in public; it is from their careless conversations, their
half-finished sentences, that we may hope with the
greatest probability of success to discover their real
characters. The life of a great or of a little man written
by himself, the familiar letters, the diary of any indi-
(25) vidual published by his friends, or by his enemies after
his decease, are esteemed important literary curiosities.
We are surely justified in this eager desire to collect the
most minute facts relative to the domestic lives, not
only of the great and the good, but even of the worth-
(30) less and insignificant, since it is only by a comparison
of their actual happiness or misery in the privacy of
domestic life, that we can form a just estimate of the
real reward of virtue, or the real punishment of vice.
That the great are not as happy as they seem, that the
(35)external circumstances of fortune and rank do not
constitute felicity, is asserted by every moralist; the
historian can seldom, consistently with his dignity,
pause to illustrate this truth, it is therefore to the biographer
we must have recourse. After we have beheld
(40)splendid characters playing their parts on the great
theatre of the world, with all the advantages of stage
effect and decoration, we anxiously beg to be admitted
behind the scenes, that we may take a nearer view of
the actors and actresses.
(45)Some may perhaps imagine, that the value of
biography depends upon the judgment and taste of
the biographer; but on the contrary it may be maintained,
that the merits of a biographer are inversely as
the extent of his intellectual powers and of his literary
(50)talents. A plain unvarnished tale is preferable to the
most highly ornamented narrative. Where we see that
a man has the power, we may naturally suspect that he
has the will to deceive us, and those who are used to
literary manufacture know how much is often sacri55
ficed to the rounding of a period or the pointing an
antithesis.
* ancient

42. In the context of the entire passage, the word
“anecdote” (line 1) is best understood to mean
(A) an unreliable secondhand account
(B) an official government document
(C) a narrative in the style of a morality play
(D) an informal story involving personal details
(E) a timeless legend

43. The author portrays the critics mentioned in
line 2 as people who are likely to
(A) identify with the public at large
(B) become the subjects of biography
(C) be profoundly philosophical
(D) keep diaries themselves
(E) prefer formal history

44. The author’s strategy in lines 1-8 is to
(A) flatter those who would criticize popular
opinions
(B) incite readers to act in a manner inconsistent
with their beliefs
(C) moralize about the injustices present in society
(D) build a logical argument and support it with
facts from history
(E) promote an impression of sympathy with
public preferences

45. In the context of the passage, the reason that few
who read history “derive any advantage from their
labors” (lines 7-8) is that
(A) the common reader is unable to appreciate
what he or she reads
(B) the historian’s preoccupation with facts makes
for dull reading
(C) the focus of history on the distant past is too
remote for most readers
(D) the historian tends to present historical figures
unrealistically
(E) most historical accounts tend to moralize

46. In line 13, “their fate” refers to the fate of
(A) readers
(B) literary critics
(C) historical figures
(D) fictional characters
(E) victims of misfortune

47. The author suggests that the preference of many
readers for “secret memoirs and private anecdotes”
(lines 16-17) is
(A) a reprehensible reaction in terms of its
consequences
(B) a grudging response to heroic lives
(C) an unfortunate lapse in propriety
(D) a justifiable form of curiosity
(E) a natural result of a love of fiction

48. In context, the phrase “half-finished sentences”
(line 21) can best be described as
(A) an allusion to ineffective style
(B) a reference to informal candor
(C) an apology for incomplete histories
(D) a symbol of the arrogance of great people
(E) an ironic statement about fastidiousness

49. In the context of the sentence in which it occurs,
the phrase “consistently with his dignity”
(line 37) points out
(A) the conflict between decorum and thoroughness
for the historian
(B) the loss of esteem suffered by the historian
(C) the social gulf between historians and
biographers
(D) the expertise that the historian brings to a work
(E) public disdain for undignified narrative

50. The sentence “Some may . . . talents” (lines 45-50)
includes all of the following EXCEPT a
(A) personal anecdote
(B) paradoxical statement
(C) premise for consideration
(D) refutation of an assumption
(E) logical extension of ideas expressed in the
first paragraph

51. The purpose of the sentence “A plain . . . narrative”
(lines 50-51) is to
(A) propose a self-contradictory opinion for
consideration
(B) elaborate on a specific anecdote
(C) shift the thematic focus considerably
(D) develop a statement made in the previous
sentence
(E) create a stylistic effect through literary
allusion

52. The author uses the phrase “highly ornamented
narrative” (line 51) to refer to the type of writing
that is
(A) preferred by most readers
(B) produced by biographers skilled at writing
(C) found in secret journals
(D) presented most realistically
(E) rejected by historians

53. In the final sentence (lines 51-56), the author
presents “the rounding of a period” and “the
pointing an antithesis” as examples of
(A) techniques ignored by most historians
(B) flourishes that can obscure truth
(C) inaccuracies that can slip into biographies
(D) techniques that appeal to most readers
(E) fine points that historical writers should
employ

54. Taken as a whole, the passage is best described as
(A) an indignant response to a personal affront
(B) a documented presentation of facts
(C) a casual reaction to a problem
(D) an extended definition of a term
(E) an argument employing illustrative
comparisons

55. Of the following contrasts, which pertains most
directly to the theme of the passage?
(A) “sublime” (line 11) and “diabolical” (line 11)
motives
(B) “antient” (line 14) and “modern” (line 14)
histories
(C) “their appearance in public” (lines 19-20) and
“their real characters” (lines 22-23)
(D) “great” (line 29) and “insignificant” (line 30)
persons
(E) “virtue” (line 33) and “vice” (line 33)

Correct Answers:
42.D 43.E 44.E 45.D 46.C 47.D 48.B 49.A 50.A 51.D 52.B 53.B 54.E 55.C

My Answers:
42.D 43.E 44.E 45.D 46.C 47.D 48.B 49.A 50.A 51.D 52.B 53.B 54.E 55.C
