Landscape thus has similarities with dreams. Both
have the power to seize terrifying feelings and deep
instincts and translate them into images—visual,
aural, tactile—into the concrete where human beings
(5) may more readily confront and channel the terrifying
instincts or powerful emotions into rituals and narratives
which reassure the individual while reaffirming
cherished values of the group. The identity of the
individual as a part of the group and the greater
(10) Whole is strengthened, and the terror of facing the
world alone is extinguished.
Even now, the people at Laguna Pueblo spend
the greater portion of social occasions recounting
recent incidents or events which have occurred in
(15) the Laguna area. Nearly always, the discussion will
precipitate the retelling of older stories about similar
incidents or other stories connected with a specific
place. The stories often contain disturbing or provocative
material, but are nonetheless told in the presence
(20) of children and women. The effect of these interfamily
or inter-clan exchanges is the reassurance for
each person that she or he will never be separated or
apart from the clan, no matter what might happen.
Neither the worst blunders or disasters nor the
(25) greatest financial prosperity and joy will ever be
permitted to isolate anyone from the rest of the group.
In the ancient times, cohesiveness was all that stood
between extinction and survival, and, while the individual
certainly was recognized, it was always as an
(30) individual simultaneously bonded to family and clan
by a complex bundle of custom and ritual. You are
never the first to suffer a grave loss or profound
humiliation. You are never the first, and you understand
that you will probably not be the last to commit
(35) or be victimized by a repugnant act. Your family and
clan are able to go on at length about others now
passed on, others older or more experienced than
you who suffered similar losses.
The wide deep arroyo near the Kings Bar (located
(40) across the reservation borderline) has over the years
claimed many vehicles. A few years ago, when a
Vietnam veteran’s new red Volkswagen rolled backwards
into the arroyo while he was inside buying a
six-pack of beer, the story of his loss joined the lively
(45) and large collection of stories already connected with
that big arroyo. I do not know whether the Vietnam
veteran was consoled when he was told the stories
about the other cars claimed by the ravenous arroyo.
All his savings of combat pay had gone for the red
(50) Volkswagen. But this man could not have felt any
worse than the man who, some years before, had left
his children and mother-in-law in his station wagon
with the engine running. When he came out of the
liquor store his station wagon was gone. He found
(55) it and its passengers upside down in the big arroyo.
Broken bones, cuts and bruises, and a total wreck
of the car. The big arroyo has a wide mouth. Its
existence needs no explanation. People in the area
regard the arroyo much as they might regard a living
(60) being, which has a certain character and personality.
I seldom drive past that wide deep arroyo without
feeling a familiarity with and even a strange affection
for this arroyo. Because as treacherous as it may be,
the arroyo maintains a strong connection between
(65) human beings and the earth. The arroyo demands
from us the caution and attention that constitute
respect. It is this sort of respect the old believers have
in mind when they tell us we must respect and love
the earth.

29. The author argues that landscapes and dreams are
similar in which of the following ways?
(A) Both give visible shape to intangible
emotions.
(B) Both lend themselves to solitary
contemplation.
(C) Both serve to disturb or alter the status quo.
(D) Both have surprising and unforeseen
contours.
(E) Both reveal the insecurities of the person
who experiences them.

30. The words “Even now” (line 12) and “Nearly
always” (line 15) serve to
(A) reveal the contradictory perspectives in
Laguna Pueblo legends
(B) stress the continuing place of legend in
Laguna culture
(C) attest to the factual basis of many legendary
events
(D) concede that legends can play several distinct
cultural roles
(E) qualify the author’s point that legends are
relevant to modern human experience

31. Which of the following best describes the
effect of the repetition of the word “you” in
lines 31-35 ?
(A) It disassociates the author from Laguna
stories and rituals.
(B) It emphasizes the consoling effects of Laguna
stories for an individual.
(C) It stresses the author’s sympathy for the
sufferings of the Lagunas.
(D) It contrasts with the intimate tone established
earlier in the passage.
(E) It undermines statements about the commonality
of certain experiences.

32. The shift from the second to the third paragraph
represents a shift from
(A) generalization to specific example
(B) one universal observation to another
(C) assertive to speculative writing
(D) a metaphorical flourish to a literal proposition
(E) a focused argument to a digression

33. In lines 41-46 (“A few . . . arroyo”), the author
cites the loss of the Vietnam veteran’s car
primarily to
(A) point out the dangers of careless driving
(B) exemplify the treatment of veterans of the
Vietnam War
(C) demonstrate that loss of property is unimportant
when compared with loss of life
(D) provide an example of a story that will be
retold
(E) warn others who might tempt fate in a
similar way

34. The story told in lines 50-57 (“But this . . .
the car”) serves to
(A) retell an ancient Laguna myth in contemporary
terms
(B) convey the author’s concern about the
consequences of the Vietnam War
(C) ironically highlight how awful the veteran’s
predicament really was
(D) illustrate that the veteran’s disaster was not
just an individual, isolating experience
(E) examine why the arroyo inspires fear and
dread

35. The sentence in line 57 (“The big arroyo has
a wide mouth”) uses which of the following?
(A) Paradox
(B) Satire
(C) Personification
(D) Contrast
(E) Simile

36. The statement that the arroyo’s “existence needs
no explanation” (line 58) resembles most closely
the view of
(A) the “individual” (line 9)
(B) “children” (line 20)
(C) the Vietnam veteran (line 42)
(D) the man whose station wagon rolled
into the arroyo (lines 50-57)
(E) “the old believers” (line 67)

37. The author feels a “strange affection” (line 62) for
the arroyo primarily because it
(A) is depicted as having human qualities in
many Laguna legends
(B) symbolizes how resilient the natural landscape
can be when it is abused
(C) is a place that has been familiar since
childhood
(D) attracts visitors who are interested in the
Laguna area
(E) generates stories and legends that connect the
local inhabitants to the earth

38. The author’s devices of argument in the passage
include which of the following?
I. Reinforcing a case by including a personal
perspective
II. Providing a specific example to illustrate an
abstract concept
III. Citing the evidence of historical scholarship
(A) I only
(B) I and II only
(C) I and III only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II, and III

39. The author values storytelling because a storyteller
has the power to
(A) give listeners the means to prioritize random
events
(B) remind listeners that most experiences have
a happy outcome
(C) help listeners to realize that their troubles are
not unique
(D) permit listeners to enjoy the pleasure of a
suspenseful tale
(E) answer questions that have previously baffled
listeners

40. Taken as a whole, the passage is best described as
(A) an implicit defense of a controversial idea
(B) an expository piece relying chiefly on comparison
and contrast
(C) an explanatory account including historical
and contemporary perspectives
(D) a descriptive passage built on a sequence of
mythic events
(E) a satiric investigation and refutation of
outdated beliefs

41. The author would be most likely to describe the
legends of the people at Laguna Pueblo as which
of the following?
(A) A body of stories periodically refreshed by
the addition of relevant new stories
(B) A set of stories requiring frequent revision to
reflect linguistic change
(C) A series of fragile constructions, vulnerable
to being forgotten and lost
(D) Direct transcriptions of their storytellers’
most vivid dreams
(E) Imaginative responses to unprecedented
human victories and disappointments

Correct Answers:
29.A 30.B 31.B 32.A 33.D 34.D 35.C 36.E 37.E 38.B 39.C 40.C 41.A 

My Answers:
29.A 30.B 31.B 32.A 33.D 34.D 35.C 36.E 37.E 38.B 39.C 40.C 41.A 