We know less about life on earth than we know
about the surface of the moon and Mars—in part
because far less money has been spent studying it.
Taxonomy, the study of classification and hence of
(5) biological diversity, has been allowed to dwindle,
while other important fields such as space exploration
and biomedical studies have flourished. Like glassblowing
and harpsichord manufacture, taxonomy of
many kinds of organisms has been left in the hands of
(10) a small number of unappreciated specialists who have
had few opportunities to train their successors. To
take one of hundreds of examples, two of the four
most abundant groups of small animals of the soil are
springtails and oribatid mites. Marvelously varied,
(15) having complex life cycles, and teeming by the
millions in every acre of land, these tiny animals play
vital ecological roles by consuming dead vegetable
matter. Thus they help to drive the energy and
materials cycles on which all life depends. Yet there
(20) are only four specialists in the United States who can
identify springtails—one is retired—and only one is
an expert on oribatid mites. The reason that so little
is heard about these important organisms in the
scientific literature and popular press is that there are
(25) so few people who know enough to write about them
at any level.
The general neglect of expertise in the face of
overwhelming need and opportunity rebounds to the
weakness of many other enterprises in science and
(30) education. Museums are understaffed, with too few
biologists to develop research collections and prepare
exhibitions. Systematics, the branch of biology that
employs taxonomy and the study of similarities
among species to work out the evolution of groups of
(35) organisms, is able to address only a minute fraction of
life. Biogeography, the analysis of the distribution of
organisms, is similarly hobbled. So is ecology, the
extremely important discipline that explores the
relationships of organisms to their environment and to
(40) one another. A great deal of the future of biology
depends on the strengthening of taxonomy, for if you
can’t tell one kind of plant or animal from another,
you are in trouble. Some kinds of research may be
held up indefinitely. As the Chinese say, the
(45) beginning of wisdom is getting things by their right
names.
The study of classification and expertise on
“obscure” groups of organisms such as periwinkles,
leeches, springtails and mites may receive the needed
(50) boost by association with what has come to be known
as biodiversity studies. Biodiversity studies constitute
a hybrid discipline that took solid form during the
1980s. They can be defined (a bit formally, I admit,
but bear with me) as follows: the systematic
(55) examination of the full array of organisms and the
origin of this diversity, together with the technology
by which diversity can be maintained and utilized for
the benefit of humanity. Thus biodiversity studies are
both scientific in nature, a branch of pure evolutionary
(60) biology, and applied studies, a branch of
biotechnology.
Two events during the past quarter-century brought
biodiversity to center stage and encouraged the
deliberately hybrid form of its analysis. The first was
(65) the recognition that human activity threatens the
extinction of not only a few “star” species such as
giant pandas and California condors, but also a large
fraction of all the species of plants and animals on
earth. At least one-quarter of the species on earth are
(70) likely to vanish due to the cutting and burning of
tropical rainforests alone if the current rate of
destruction continues. The second reason for the new
prominence of biodiversity studies is the recognition
that extinction can be slowed and eventually halted
(75) without significant cost to humanity. Extinction is not
a price we are compelled to pay for economic
progress. Quite the contrary: As the examples of the
rosy periwinkle and medicinal leech suggest,
conservation can promote human welfare. Ultimately
(80) conservation might even be necessary for continued
progress in many realms of human endeavor.

1. The primary purpose of the first paragraph
(lines 1-26) is to
(A) inspire students to enter scientific professions
(B) argue that certain animal groups are
becoming extinct
(C) encourage people to follow the progress of
current scientific research
(D) call attention to the decline of a significant
field of study
(E) explain the relationship between different
scientific disciplines

2. The author mentions “glass-blowing and
harpsichord manufacture” (lines 7-8) to suggest
that taxonomy is
(A) a field characterized by antiquated practices
(B) an art that is extremely difficult to master
(C) a profession practiced by relatively few
people
(D) an area of expertise with various practical
applications
(E) a discipline that has limited usefulness

3. The series of phrases in lines 14-16
(“Marvelously varied . . . acre of land”) primarily
conveys the
(A) critical job that springtails and oribatid mites
perform in the natural environment
(B) ferocity with which springtails and oribatid
mites compete for survival
(C) array of tiny animals that coexist with
springtails and oribatid mites in the soil
(D) characteristics of springtails and oribatid
mites
(E) life span of springtails and oribatid mites
living in the soil

4. In the context of lines 19-22, the words “one is
retired” are best described as
(A) a detail that makes a critical situation even
more precarious
(B) a fact that is puzzling to the author and other
biologists
(C) a claim that is of equal concern to scientists
and the general public
(D) an excuse for outdated designs for research
projects
(E) an aside that undermines the point about
taxonomy that is being made

5. Which of the following best describes the
relationship between the first and second
paragraphs?
(A) The second paragraph illustrates the work of
the specialists mentioned in the first
paragraph.
(B) The second paragraph describes the effects of
an issue raised in the first paragraph.
(C) The second paragraph questions the logic of
an idea expressed in the first paragraph.
(D) The second paragraph considers factors that
could remedy the situation discussed in the
first paragraph.
(E) The second paragraph lists the practical
applications of a theory proposed in the
first paragraph.

6. The author cites a Chinese saying (lines 44-46) to
emphasize the
(A) contrast between Eastern and Western
science
(B) intricacy of the relationships that unite living
beings
(C) necessity of using scientific knowledge in a
responsible manner
(D) importance of taxonomy as a field of study
(E) danger of postponing biological research

7. The author uses the word “obscure” in line 48 to
mean
(A) ambiguous
(B) incomprehensible
(C) not well known
(D) uncertain
(E) unusually small

8. The third paragraph (lines 47-61) serves which of
the following functions?
(A) It explains the results of a controversial
study.
(B) It compares examples that illustrate a point.
(C) It explores social and historical contexts.
(D) It speculates about a potential improvement.
(E) It presents an opposing point of view.

9. Which of the following is true of the position
presented in lines 72-77 (“The second . . .
progress”) ?
(A) It is based on information provided at the
beginning of the passage.
(B) It takes issue with the claims made in the
previous sentence.
(C) It acknowledges that the solution to the
problem will involve painful choices.
(D) It emphasizes that immediate action is
essential for success.
(E) It suggests that an assumption held by many
people may be incorrect.

10. One important purpose of the passage is to
(A) urge the public to contribute money to a
proposed taxonomy project
(B) argue that the public should focus on
identifying and saving a few key species
(C) suggest that ecological conservation is a
beneficial enterprise
(D) question why some species are better
protected than others
(E) promote specific organizations devoted to
improving global well-being

11. The primary rhetorical strategy in the passage
is the
(A) exemplification of key concepts and ideas
(B) narration of stories and use of personal
references
(C) description of research methodologies
(D) comparison and contrast of differing
viewpoints
(E) reevaluation of traditional notions of cause
and effect

12. In the passage, italics are used to highlight
(A) citations from different authorities
(B) ideas that scientists consider outdated
(C) the hypotheses that the author challenges
(D) trends that the author has encouraged
(E) the major points of the author’s argument

13. The author’s tone is best described as
(A) polite yet condescending
(B) concerned yet hopeful
(C) critical and indignant
(D) eager and amazed
(E) pessimistic and discouraged

14. The passage is most likely excerpted from
(A) an educational article promoting awareness of
a critical scientific issue
(B) a scholarly essay substantiating the veracity
of a recent scientific discovery
(C) a historical document describing public
funding for biodiversity studies
(D) a research report criticizing the behavior of
both sides in a current scientific debate
(E) an informational pamphlet discussing
exhibits in a natural history museum

15. It can be inferred from the passage that the author
assumes the reader is
(A) an expert questioning every aspect of the
author’s argument
(B) a generalist who needs an explanation of
specialized concepts
(C) a student seeking facts in order to develop a
testable thesis
(D) a colleague evaluating a proposal for a
research project
(E) an enthusiast aware of current discoveries
and debates

Correct Answers:
1.D 2.C 3.D 4.A 5.B 6.D 7.C 8.D 9.E 10.C 11.A 12.E 13.B 14.A 15.B 

My Answers:
1.D 2.C 3.D 4.A 5.B 6.D 7.C 8.D 9.E 10.C 11.A 12.E 13.B 14.A 15.B 
