So pronounced is the book-club phenomenon
that the format has spread to other venues and media,
the most famous of these being the ‘book club’
component of Oprah Winfrey’s television talk show.
(5)Staged like an actual book-group meeting, with
invited discussants and a cozy living-room setting,
the Winfrey show can boost a featured title to instant
bestsellerdom and turn authors into stars. There
are now ‘book clubs’ online, in bookstores, and
(10)functioning as consumer focus groups for publishers.1
Colleges, bookstores, and resorts have recently
begun to develop ‘readers’ retreats.’2 Newsletters,
magazines, newspapers, and published guides advise
readers how to find, establish, and manage successful
(15)clubs.3
The widespread popularity of these reading groups
has even occasioned a form of ‘book-club backlash.’
In a newspaper opinion piece titled ‘Why I Won’t
Join the Book Club,’ one contributor expressed alarm
(20)that reading was becoming another scheduled activity
to be slotted in ‘like the trip to the gym and the
grocery store’; self-improving readers ‘pop’ books as
they would vitamin tablets. But books ‘are not about
schedules,’ author Stephanie Nolen argues; rather,
(25)they are ‘about submerging yourself . . . about getting
lost, about getting consumed.’4 Considerable attention
was garnered by another article, detailing the darker
side of some New York City reading groups.
Headlined ‘Book-Club Lovers Wage a War of Words’
(30)when reprinted by the Globe and Mail, it could
equally well have been titled ‘When Book Clubs Go
Bad’: ‘No longer just friendly social gatherings with
a vague continuing-education agenda, many of
today’s book groups have become literary pressure
(35)cookers, marked by aggressive intellectual oneupmanship
and unabashed social skirmishing. In
living rooms and bookshops, clubs are frazzling under
the stress, giving rise to a whole new profession: the
book-group therapist.’5 The clubs that Elaine Daspin
(40)describes here seem to be functioning as
unconsciousness- rather than consciousness-raising
sessions, where competitive readers battle for
interpretive supremacy. While book-club therapists
may well be confined to the rarefied worlds of the
(45)Upper East Side or Long Island, authors of recent
book-club guides reiterate the need to establish
common purposes, regular routines, and guidelines
for thorough preparation.
Clearly, the positives outweigh the pitfalls; book
(50)clubs are in demand because they offer individual
readers an extra dimension of appreciation and
understanding. Yet despite the fact that shared
discussion of literary texts is also the foundation
of literary study in school, college, and university
(55)classrooms, literary theorists and reader-response
critics have yet to devote much attention to such
shared and synergistic study, instead construing
readers as isolates or abstractions. (Studies tend
to focus on the emotional responses or cognitive
(60)activities of individual readers, or to infer such
reactions by examining the properties of a literary
text.) But club and classroom participants know that
there is something different, something added, about
sharing and discussing literature with other people.
-------------------foot note-------------------------------
1 For an example of an online ‘book club’—this one
produced by a mass-market circulation women’s
magazine—see Conversations (Book Club) on
Chateleine Connects at www.canoe.ca/chateleine.
2 For example, Vancouver bookseller Celia Duthie is
developing such ‘retreats’ at a country inn. There are
discussion periods and visits by authors and, most
importantly, time to read. See Keyes, ‘Out of the Woods.’
3 Some popular guides are Greenwood et al., The Go on
Girl!; Jacobson, The Reading Group Handbook; and Saal,
The New York Public Library Guide to Reading Groups.
A new entry to the field, developed with a particular eye
to the needs of Canadian clubs, is Heft and O’Brien, Build
a Better Book Club.
4 Nolen, ‘Why I Won’t Join the Book Club’
5 Daspin, ‘Book-Club Lovers Wage a War of Words.’
The piece originally appeared in the Wall Street Journal.


16. The organization of the passage can best be
described as
(A) personal narrative followed by analysis
(B) empirical data followed by conjecture
(C) nonjudgmental explanation of a current
phenomenon followed by a question
(D) descriptive analysis followed by a final
judgment
(E) condemnation of a practice followed by
partial acceptance

17. In context, the author places the term “book club”
in quotation marks in lines 3 and 9 in order to
(A) show that these are humorous examples
(B) highlight how formal some of these clubs are
(C) reveal that the book clubs that appear online
or on television are unsatisfactory
(D) suggest that the term is being broadened
beyond its original meaning
(E) imply that many book club members do not
like the term

18. The first paragraph (lines 1-15) serves to
(A) explain why the author enjoys one way of
reading
(B) describe the extension of a particular activity
into nontraditional areas
(C) make generalizations that will be developed
later
(D) explore ways in which people can structure
free time
(E) detail the power of media and mass
marketing to censor

19. According to lines 23-26, Stephanie Nolen’s
primary criticism of book clubs is that they
(A) are too programmed
(B) do not offer enough variety
(C) cause readers to be anxious
(D) overlook many classics
(E) forego quality for quantity

20. The clubs referred to in line 39 are discussed in
(A) the online discussion group of a particular
book club
(B) a study sponsored by book club participants
(C) an editorial in a Canadian magazine
(D) a guide written by Elaine Daspin
(E) an article published in the Wall Street
Journal

21. The “recent book-club guides” (lines 45-46) tend
to emphasize
(A) how book clubs need to be structured and
regular in order to succeed
(B) how difficult it is to start a book club in
New York
(C) how often even the best book clubs fail
(D) the variety of reasons that people have for
starting book clubs
(E) the challenges of selecting books for
discussion

22. The last paragraph (lines 49-64) marks a
shift from
(A) popular to academic contexts
(B) supported to unsound generalizations
(C) impersonal to personal examples
(D) subtle irony to explicit sarcasm
(E) neutral to negative characterization of
book clubs

23. The function of lines 52-58 (“Yet despite . . .
abstractions”) is to
(A) argue for the value of a particular literary
theory
(B) explain how important it is not to make
abstract judgments
(C) point out a discrepancy between teaching
practices and literary theory
(D) highlight the demand for a way to measure
emotional responses to texts
(E) explore the author’s views about reading in
isolation

24. The final sentence (lines 62-64) serves to
(A) conclude an argument begun in the first
paragraph
(B) suggest a probable cause for an ongoing
phenomenon
(C) argue that publishers need to pay more
attention to book clubs
(D) offer a final analysis of the phenomenon
described in the second paragraph
(E) explain why the author has chosen a
particular field of study

25. One function of sentence 3 (lines 8-10) and
endnote 1 is to
(A) give an example of a group that earns money
by reading
(B) show that book clubs are not intended for
literary scholars
(C) note the connection between marketing and
book clubs
(D) cite one book club as a particular model of
excellence
(E) suggest the benefits of online discussion
groups

26. It can be inferred from endnote 2 that “ ‘Out of the
Woods’ ” is
(A) an article about a type of retreat
(B) an exposé about fee-based book clubs
(C) an essay about book club protocol
(D) a meditation on favorite works by famous
authors
(E) an article about how to start a traditional
book club

27. The function of endnote 3 is to
(A) offer specific examples of one of the types of
resources mentioned
(B) convince the reader of the value of book
clubs
(C) test whether the reader is interested in
particular books
(D) evaluate tips on how to set up book clubs
(E) compare the strengths and weaknesses of
certain books

28. The information in endnote 2 is different from
that in endnote 3 in that endnote 2
(A) is critical while endnote 3 is neutral
(B) assumes that readers do not like research
while endnote 3 assumes that readers like
research
(C) is concerned with local book clubs while
endnote 3 relates to global issues
(D) primarily provides an illustration of a
phenomenon while endnote 3 primarily lists
resources
(E) relates mostly to marketing while endnote 3
relates mostly to cultural conflicts in book
clubs

Correct Answers:
16.D 17.D 18.B 19.A 20.E 21.A 22.A 23.C 24.B 25.C 26.A 27.A 28.D 

My Answers:
16.D 17.D 18.B 19.A 20.E 21.A 22.A 23.C 24.B 25.C 26.A 27.A 28.D 