Questions 1-13. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The passage below consists of excerpts from an essay
published in the 1940s.)

It is the fate of actors to leave only picture postcards
behind them. Every night when the curtain goes down
the beautiful coloured canvas is rubbed out. What
remains is at best only a wavering, insubstantial
(5) phantom—a verbal life on the lips of the living.
Ellen Terry was well aware of it. She tried herself,
overcome by the greatness of Irving as Hamlet and
indignant at the caricatures of his detractors, to
describe what she remembered. It was in vain. She
(10) dropped her pen in despair. “Oh God, that I were a
writer!” she cried. “Surely a writer could not string
words together about Henry Irving’s Hamlet and say
nothing, nothing.” It never struck her, humble as she
was, and obsessed by her lack of book learning, that
(15) she was, among other things, a writer. It never occurred
to her when she wrote her autobiography, or scribbled
page after page to Bernard Shaw late at night, dead
tired after a rehearsal, that she was “writing.” The
words in her beautiful rapid hand bubbled off her pen.
(20) With dashes and notes of exclamation she tried to give
them the very tone and stress of the spoken word. It is
true, she could not build a house with words, one room
opening out of another, and a staircase connecting the
whole. But whatever she took up became in her warm,
(25) sensitive grasp a tool. If it was a rolling-pin, she made
perfect pastry. If it was a carving knife, perfect slices
fell from the leg of mutton. If it were a pen, words
peeled off, some broken, some suspended in mid-air,
but all far more expressive than the tappings of the
(30) professional typewriter.
With her pen then at odds and ends of time she has
painted a self-portrait. It is not an Academy portrait,
glazed, framed, complete. It is rather a bundle of loose
leaves upon each of which she has dashed off a sketch
(35) for a portrait—here a nose, here an arm, here a foot,
and there a mere scribble in the margin. The sketches
done in different moods, from different angles, sometimes 
contradict each other. . . .
Which, then, of all these women is the real Ellen
(40) Terry? How are we to put the scattered sketches
together? Is she mother, wife, cook, critic, actress,
or should she have been, after all, a painter? Each part
seems the right part until she throws it aside and plays
another. Something of Ellen Terry it seems overflowed
(45) every part and remained unacted. Shakespeare could
not fit her; not Ibsen; nor Shaw. The stage could not
hold her; nor the nursery. But there is, after all, a
greater dramatist than Shakespeare, Ibsen, or Shaw.
There is Nature. Hers is so vast a stage, and so
(50) innumerable a company of actors, that for the most
part she fobs them off with a tag or two. They come
on and they go off without breaking the ranks. But
now and again Nature creates a new part, an original
part. The actors who act that part always defy our
(55) attempts to name them. They will not act the stock
parts—they forget the words, they improvise others
of their own. But when they come on the stage falls
like a pack of cards and the limelights are extinguished.
That was Ellen Terry’s fate—to act a new part. And
(60) thus while other actors are remembered because they
were Hamlet, Phèdre, or Cleopatra, Ellen Terry is
remembered because she was Ellen Terry.

1. Which of the following statements is best supported
by information given in the passage?
(A) Terry never focused on one career; she was
skilled at so many things that she did not
excel in any one thing.
(B) Terry was so clever an actress that her portrayal
of a role seemed to change every
night.
(C) Shaw encouraged Terry to become a playwright
by carefully tutoring her in creating
plots and characters.
(D) Because Terry lacked confidence in certain of
her skills, she never fully realized she was a
person of rare talents and gifts.
(E) Because Terry did not have natural talent for
either writing or acting, she struggled to
learn her crafts and became great through
sheer willpower.

2. The author’s attitude toward Terry can best be
described as
(A) superior and condescending
(B) unbiased and dispassionate
(C) sympathetic and admiring
(D) curious and skeptical
(E) conciliatory and forgiving

3. In line 1, “picture postcards” functions as a metaphor
for the
(A) published text of a play
(B) audience’s impressions of the actors’
performances
(C) critical reviews of plays
(D) plays in which the actors in the company
have previously performed
(E) stage designer’s sketches of sets and scenes

4. The passage implies that the primary enemy of the
“beautiful coloured canvas” and the “wavering,
insubstantial phantom” (lines 3 and 4-5) is the
(A) cost of producing plays
(B) whims of critics
(C) passage of time
(D) incredulity of audiences
(E) shortcomings of dramatists

5. The phrase “a verbal life on the lips of the living”
(line 5) suggests that
(A) performances live only in the memories of
those who witness and speak of them
(B) actors do not take the trouble to explain their
art to the public
(C) the reviews of critics have a powerful influence
on the popularity of a production
(D) dramatists try to write dialogue that imitates
ordinary spoken language
(E) audiences respond to the realism of the
theater

6. What is the relationship of the second and
third sentences (lines 2-5) to the first sentence
(lines 1-2) ?
(A) They are structurally less complex than the
first.
(B) They are expressed in less conditional terms
than the first.
(C) They introduce new ideas not mentioned
in the first.
(D) They clarify and expand on the first.
(E) They question the generalization made in
the first.

7. The pronoun “it” (line 6) refers to which of the
following?
(A) “fate” (line 1)
(B) “curtain” (line 2)
(C) “canvas” (line 3)
(D) “phantom” (line 5)
(E) “life” (line 5)

8. The effect of italicizing the words “nothing,
nothing” (line 13) is to
(A) emphasize Terry’s sense of frustration
(B) indicate a sarcastic tone
(C) suggest the difficulty of writing great parts
for actors
(D) link a clear sense of purpose to success in
writing
(E) imply that Terry’s weakness in writing is her
tendency to exaggerate

9. The words “bubbled off” (line 19) and “peeled
off” (line 28), used to describe the way Terry
wrote, emphasize
(A) polish and sophistication
(B) thoughtfulness and application
(C) bluntness and indiscretion
(D) mystery and imagination
(E) ease and spontaneity

10. Which of the following stylistic features is used
most extensively in lines 25-30 ?
(A) Inversion of normal subject/verb/object order
(B) Repetition of sentence structure
(C) Periodic sentence structure
(D) Sentence fragments for emphasis
(E) Use of connotative meanings that add
complexity

11. The effect of mentioning an “Academy portrait”
(line 32) is to
(A) imply that Terry deserved to have her portrait
painted by a great artist
(B) suggest that Terry was adept at self-expression
both in writing and in painting
(C) clarify the informal nature of Terry’s selfportrait
through contrast
(D) hint that Terry’s self-absorption prevented
her from writing about herself
dispassionately
(E) blame Terry for her rebellion against the
conventions of art forms

12. The “sketches” (line 36) are most probably
(A) responses to reviewers who have criticized
Terry’s acting
(B) paintings by Terry of other actors
(C) stage directions from playwrights
(D) self-revelatory remarks
(E) descriptions of characters Terry has portrayed

13. The author suggests that Shakespeare, Shaw,
and Ibsen could not “fit” (line 46) Terry chiefly
because
(A) the parts they created did not allow Terry to
make use of every aspect of her talents
(B) their dramatic talents were focused on plot
rather than on character
(C) Terry was better at conveying certain kinds
of characters and emotions than she was at
conveying others
(D) their plays were set in historical periods
different from the one in which Terry lived
(E) the speeches they wrote for their female characters
were written in accents and dialects
different from Terry’s

Correct Answers:
1.D 2.C 3.B 4.C 5.A 6.D 7.A 8.A 9.E 10.B 11.C 12.D 13.A 

My Answers:
1.D 2.C 3.B 4.C 5.A 6.D 7.A 8.A 9.E 10.B 11.C 12.D 13.A 