Questions 14-30. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The following passage is excerpted from a recent
nonfiction book.)

Four fish, then. Or rather four archetypes of fish
flesh, which humanity is trying to master in one way
or another, either through the management of a wild
system, through the domestication and farming of
(5) individual species, or through the outright substitution
of one species for another.
This is not the first time humanity has glanced
across the disorderly range of untamed nature and
selected a handful of species to exploit and propagate.
(10) Out of all of the many mammals that roamed the earth
before the last ice age, our forebears selected four—
cows, pigs, sheep, and goats—to be their principal
meats.1 Out of all the many birds that darkened the
primeval skies, humans chose four—chickens,
(15) turkeys, ducks, and geese—to be their poultry. But
today, as we evaluate and parse fish in this next great
selection and try to figure out which ones will be our
principals, we find ourselves with a more complex
set of decisions before us. Early man put very little
(20) thought into preserving his wild food. He was in the
minority in nature, and the creatures he chose to
domesticate for his table were a subset of a much
greater, wilder whole. He had no idea of his
destructive potential or of his abilities to remake the
(25) world.
Modern man is a different animal, one who is fully
aware of his capability to skew the rules of nature
in his favor. Up until the mid-twentieth century,
humans tended to see their transformative abilities as
(30) not only positive but inevitable. Francis Galton, a
leading Victorian intellectual, infamously known
as the founder of eugenics but also a prolific
writer on a wide range of subjects including
animal domestication, wrote at the dawn of the
(35) industrialization of the world’s food system, “It would
appear that every wild animal has had its chance of
being domesticated.”2 Of the undomesticated animals
left behind, Galton had this depressing prediction:
“As civilization extends they are doomed to be
(40) gradually destroyed off the face of the earth as
useless consumers of cultivated produce.”
And that brings us to the present day, the crucial
point at which we stand in our current relationship
with the ocean. Must we eliminate all wildness from
(45) the sea and replace it with some kind of human
controlled system, or can wildness be understood
and managed well enough to keep humanity and the
marine world in balance?
In spite of the impression given by numerous
(50) reports in the news media, wild fish still exist in great
numbers. The wild harvest from the ocean is now
around 90 million tons3 a year. The many cycles
and subcycles that spin and generate food are still
spinning, sometimes with great vigor, and they
(55) require absolutely no input from us in order to
continue, other than restraint. In cases where grounds
have been seemingly tapped out, ten years’ rest has
sometimes been enough to restore them to at least
some of their former glory. World War II, while one
(60) of the most devastating periods in history for humans,
might be called “The Great Reprieve” if history were
written by fish.4 With mines and submarines ready to
blow up any unsuspecting fishing vessel, much of the
North Atlantic’s depleted fishing grounds were left
(65) fallow and fish increased their numbers significantly.
But is modern man capable of consciously creating
restraint without some outside force, like war? Is there
some wiser incarnation of the hunter-gatherer that will
compel us to truly conserve our wild food, or is
(70) humanity actually hardwired to eradicate the wild
majority and then domesticate a tiny subset? Can
we not resist the urge to remake a wild system, to
redirect the energy flow of that system in a way that
serves us?
-----foot note---------------------------------------------
1 principal meats: My summaries of animal breeding
and the histories of domestication derive from
Trygve Gjedrem, Selection and Breeding Programs
in Aquaculture (New York: Springer, 2005).
2 “It would appear that every wild animal”:
Francis Galton as cited in Juliet Clutton-Brock,
A Natural History of Domesticated Mammals
(New York: Cambridge University Press, 1999).
In addition to his writing on eugenics, animal
domestication, and many other topics, Galton was a
cousin of Charles Darwin and is considered to be one of
the founders of the school of statistical genetics.
3 around 90 million tons: Most of my larger macro-level
fisheries data are drawn from the United Nations Food
and Agriculture Organization’s latest biennial report The
State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture 2008, ed. J.-F.
Pulvenis de Séligny, A. Gumy, and R. Grainger (Rome:
FAO, 2009), http://www.fao.org/docrep/011/i0250e/
i0250e00.htm. The marine ecologist Daniel Pauly and
others have repeatedly stressed that the Republic of
China’s overestimation of aquaculture production and
wild catch could significantly skew the overall global data
in FAO’s statistics. In particular, Pauly takes issue with
the assessment that aquaculture is now 50 percent of the
world’s seafood supply and warns that the actual number
may be much lower. While I agree that the data may
be skewed, the trend of the rise of aquaculture is
unmistakable. If we have not reached a point of 50%
aquacultured seafood by now we surely will reach that
number within a decade or two.
4 if history were written by fish: The observation that
World War II represented a reprieve for groundfish in the
North Atlantic is based on an interview conducted with
Daniel Pauly in the summer of 2005. Other researchers,
most notably Jeff Hutchinson at Dalhousie University,
disagree on this point. Whether or not a difference in
groundfish numbers before and after World War II can
be quantified, it is nevertheless undeniable that fishing
pressure declined during the war and that fishing pressure,
globally, increased progressively from 1950 through the
present day.

14. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) suggest that the domestication of fish
and animals may be humanity’s most
practical plan
(B) challenge humans to cultivate a sustainable
relationship with their wild food sources
(C) argue that wild fish is preferable to farmraised
fish for dietary and ecological
reasons
(D) examine the difficulty of farming enough fish
to supplement the wild population
(E) propose rotating the harvest of different
species to repopulate the world’s supply
of fish

15. Which of the following best describes the tone of
the passage?
(A) It is largely objective and rises in urgency.
(B) It is marked by a growing sense of anger and
disillusionment.
(C) It alternates between quizzical disbelief and
grave condemnation.
(D) It remains cynical and condescending
throughout.
(E) It shifts from mild concern to a final sense of
optimism.

16. Which statement best describes the style and
content of the first paragraph (lines 1-6) ?
(A) The author moves from the general to the
specific as he considers the nutritional value
of fish.
(B) The author speaks in poetic fragments as he
ponders the qualities and characteristics of
fish.
(C) The author employs technical terms as he
critiques the primary types of fish.
(D) The author’s word choice shifts from the
concrete to the abstract as he argues to save
fish.
(E) The author’s voice changes from
conversational to academic as he
clarifies his thoughts about fish.

17. How does the author primarily characterize
“humanity” in lines 7-15 (“This is . . . their
poultry”) ?
(A) The author emphasizes the verb “glanced” to
imply that humans behave in an erratic
manner.
(B) The author uses prepositions indicating scope
and range to suggest that humans act
omnipotently.
(C) The author uses strong verbs such as
“exploit” and “propagate” to assert that
humans are wasteful.
(D) The author repeats the same sentence
structure to demonstrate how
unimaginatively humans work.
(E) The author highlights animal species by
setting them off with dashes to show that
humans admire them.

18. The main purpose of note 1 is to
(A) provide information about the author’s fulllength
book
(B) name a book that references the author’s
argument in the passage
(C) refer the reader to a perspective different
from that of the author
(D) cite a source that the author used to research
animal domestication
(E) draw attention to a seminal work in the field
of environmental activism

19. In line 16, the word “parse” refers to the analysis
of fish for the purpose of
(A) creating a prioritized list of food sources
(B) condemning a confusing system of
classification
(C) determining the condition of the marine
environment
(D) identifying a group of endangered species
(E) ranking the best fishing strategies

20. Lines 19-28 (“Early man . . . his favor”) compare
early man’s
(A) physical strength with modern man’s
intelligence and reason
(B) lack of awareness with modern man’s
knowledge and understanding
(C) basic skills with modern man’s hunting
prowess
(D) wastefulness with modern man’s
conservation methods
(E) simple tastes with modern man’s refined
palate

21. In the third paragraph (lines 26-41), the author
mentions Francis Galton primarily to
(A) cite supporting evidence for the author’s
argument about eugenics
(B) provide a possible solution to a long-standing
problem
(C) identify the ethical dilemmas of animal
domestication
(D) acknowledge an influential thinker in the
field of food science
(E) describe a perspective that the author
considers problematic

22. What information does note 2 provide about the
quotation from Francis Galton?
(A) It appears in a 1999 reprint of Galton’s book,
edited by Juliet Clutton-Brock.
(B) It is the focus of a book written by scholar
Juliet Clutton-Brock.
(C) It expresses a view highly similar to that
found in Galton’s other works.
(D) It was inspired by the works of
Charles Darwin.
(E) It came from A Natural History of
Domesticated Mammals.

23. Which stance does the author take in note 3 ?
(A) The author praises the efforts of the
United Nations to gather fishery data.
(B) The author demands better record keeping
from the global community.
(C) The author explains the method the Republic
of China used to estimate its production.
(D) The author acknowledges possible
inaccuracies in specific data but confirms
their general trend.
(E) The author cites other ecologists and asks
them to help verify fishery data going
forward.

24. The author uses World War II as an example
of how
(A) the media spread misleading information
about the health of the wild fish population
(B) stable the wild fish population has remained
throughout most of the twentieth century
(C) rapidly wild fish are able to evolve in
response to climate change
(D) technological advances can increase the
number of wild fish caught
(E) a temporary interruption in fishing can help
the wild fish population regenerate

25. In context, the reference to “‘The Great
Reprieve’” (line 61) emphasizes a time when
(A) humans realized that fish could help them
care for the environment
(B) humans recognized the destructive power
they hold
(C) the oceans underwent a number of climaterelated
changes
(D) a marked contrast existed between the fates
of fish and humans
(E) a notable change took place in the food
preferences of humans

26. Note 4 suggests that the author
(A) believes that Daniel Pauly’s position is
credible
(B) questions the validity of Jeff Hutchinson’s
academic work
(C) is troubled by the opposing views of experts
in the field
(D) believes that further research on the
World War II time period is crucial
(E) used only print sources in the research for
the book

27. In the last paragraph (lines 66-74), the author
primarily asks
(A) if conservation methods will continue to
improve over the years
(B) how much war has shaped the environmental
landscape
(C) whether humans have control over innate
impulses
(D) when scientists will be able to develop new
sources of food
(E) why humans alternate between selfishness
and self-sacrifice

28. Which of the following best describes the effect
of the rhetorical questions in the last paragraph
(lines 66-74) ?
(A) They frame issues to facilitate scientific
investigation.
(B) They call attention to the uncertainty of the
outcome.
(C) They emphasize each individual’s
responsibility to take action.
(D) They suggest that the answers to the
questions are already known.
(E) They reassure readers that the problem is
being addressed.

29. Which of the following best describes how the
thesis of the passage is conveyed?
(A) It is stated explicitly at the beginning of the
passage.
(B) It begins as a simple statement but is quickly
qualified.
(C) It is expressed as a conclusion and supported
by specific evidence.
(D) It evolves and becomes more explicit as the
passage develops.
(E) It is presented as a concrete proposal for
change.

30. Which frame of reference does the author
primarily use to contextualize the passage?
(A) Economic
(B) Cultural
(C) Historical
(D) Political
(E) Mystical

Correct Answers:
14.B 15.A 16.E 17.B 18.D 19.A 20.B 21.E 22.E 23.D 24.E 25.D 26.A 27.C 28.B 29.D 30.C 

My Answers:
14.B 15.A 16.E 17.B 18.D 19.A 20.B 21.E 22.E 23.D 24.E 25.D 26.A 27.C 28.B 29.D 30.C 