Questions 44-55. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The passage below is excerpted from an essay
written in nineteenth-century England.)

It has been well said that the highest aim in
education is analogous to the highest aim in
mathematics, namely, to obtain not results but
Line powers, not particular solutions, but the means by
(5) which endless solutions may be wrought. He is the
most effective educator who aims less at perfecting
specific acquirements than at producing that mental
condition which renders acquirements easy, and leads
to their useful application; who does not seek to make
(10) his pupils moral by enjoining particular courses of
action, but by bringing into activity the feelings and
sympathies that must issue in noble action. On the
same ground it may be said that the most effective
writer is not he who announces a particular discovery,
(15) who convinces men of a particular conclusion, who
demonstrates that this measure is right and that
measure wrong; but he who rouses in others the
activities that must issue in discovery, who awakes
men from their indifference to the right and the
(20) wrong, who nerves their energies to seek for the truth
and live up to it at whatever cost. The influence of
such a writer is dynamic. He does not teach men how
to use sword and musket, but he inspires their souls
with courage and sends a strong will into their
(25) muscles. He does not, perhaps, enrich your stock of
data, but he clears away the film from your eyes that
you may search for data to some purpose. He does
not, perhaps, convince you, but he strikes you,
undeceives you, animates you. You are not directly
(30) fed by his books, but you are braced as by a walk up
to an alpine summit, and yet subdued to calm and
reverence as by the sublime things to be seen from
that summit.
Such a writer is Thomas Carlyle. It is an idle
(35) question to ask whether his books will be read a
century hence: if they were all burnt as the grandest
of Suttees1 on his funeral pile, it would be only like
cutting down an oak after its acorns have sown a
forest. For there is hardly a superior or active mind
(40) of this generation that has not been modified by
Carlyle’s writings; there has hardly been an English
book written for the last ten or twelve years that
would not have been different if Carlyle had not lived.
The character of his influence is best seen in the fact
(45) that many of the men who have the least agreement
with his opinions are those to whom the reading of
Sartor Resartus was an epoch in the history of their
minds. The extent of his influence may be best seen in
the fact that ideas which were startling novelties when
(50) he first wrote them are now become common-places.
And we think few men will be found to say that this
influence on the whole has not been for good. There
are plenty who question the justice of Carlyle’s
estimates of past men and past times, plenty who
(55) quarrel with the exaggerations of the Latter-Day
Pamphlets, and who are as far as possible from
looking for an amendment of things from a Carlylian
theocracy with the ‘greatest man’, as a Joshua who is
to smite the wicked (and the stupid) till the going
(60) down of the sun.2 But for any large nature, those
points of difference are quite incidental. It is not as a
theorist, but as a great and beautiful human nature,
that Carlyle influences us. You may meet a man
whose wisdom seems unimpeachable, since you find
(65) him entirely in agreement with yourself; but this
oracular man of unexceptionable opinions has a
green eye, a wiry hand, and altogether a Wesen, or
demeanour, that makes the world look blank to you,
and whose unexceptionable opinions become a bore;
(70) while another man who deals in what you cannot but
think ‘dangerous paradoxes’, warms your heart by the
pressure of his hand, and looks out on the world with
so clear and loving an eye, that nature seems to reflect
the light of his glance upon your own feeling. So it is
(75) with Carlyle. When he is saying the very opposite of
what we think, he says it so finely, with so hearty
conviction—he makes the object about which we
differ stand out in such grand relief under the clear
light of his strong and honest intellect—he appeals
(80) so constantly to our sense of the manly and the
truthful—that we are obliged to say ‘Hear! hear!’ to
the writer before we can give the decorous ‘Oh! oh!’
to his opinions.
---------------foot notes------------
(1) A suttee is a now-obsolete Hindu funeral practice.
(2) Carlyle believed that great men, or heroes, shaped history through their
personal actions and divine inspiration. Joshua, a military leader and
successor of Moses, led the Jewish people to the Promised Land.

44. What is the relationship between the
two paragraphs in the passage?
(A) The first paragraph describes strengths of a
writer that Carlyle exhibits, and the second
discusses his legacy.
(B) The first paragraph surveys various types of
writers, and the second focuses on Carlyle.
(C) The first paragraph describes Carlyle’s
critics, and the second depicts his
supporters.
(D) The first paragraph considers who influenced
Carlyle, and the second lists those he
influenced.
(E) The first paragraph explains Carlyle’s major
ideas, and the second evaluates his
predictions.

45. Which of the following best represents the
author’s intended audience?
(A) Individuals who are fairly well acquainted
with Carlyle’s writing
(B) Readers who are having trouble
understanding Carlyle’s prose
(C) Writers who hope to produce books that are
like Carlyle’s
(D) Instructors looking for different ways to teach
Carlyle
(E) Scholars seeking information about Carlyle’s
personal life

46. Lines 5-12 (“He is . . . noble action”) contrast
(A) the acquisition of skills and the possession of
aptitude
(B) the labor of reasoning and the exhilaration of
acting
(C) the dissemination of knowledge and the
cultivation of intellectual and moral powers
(D) the traits of practical students and those of
creative thinkers
(E) the benefits of learning and the rewards of
teaching

47. The author uses the phrase “On the same ground”
(lines 12-13) to set up a comparison between
(A) the aims of mathematics and those of
education
(B) conceptually powerful writers and exemplary
educators
(C) intellectual challenges faced by writers and
those faced by readers
(D) the formulation of solutions and the
identification of problems
(E) scientific writing and inspirational writing

48. On the basis of the first paragraph,
Thomas Carlyle is best characterized as a
writer who is
(A) ambitious, seeking to increase the number of
people buying his books
(B) revolutionary, agitating his readers to adopt a
radically new worldview
(C) charismatic, enticing his readers to support
his views and beliefs
(D) provocative, compelling his readers to reach
their own conclusions
(E) masterful, overpowering his readers with a
sense of awe and veneration

49. The “acorns” (line 38) represent
(A) Carlyle’s young children
(B) Carlyle’s less prominent contemporaries
(C) ideas in Carlyle’s books
(D) books written about Carlyle
(E) those who are critical of Carlyle

50. In lines 47-48, the author refers to “an epoch in
the history of their minds” to
(A) illustrate the ways in which other intellectuals
disagreed with Carlyle
(B) define the meaning of the title Sartor
Resartus
(C) question the continued relevance of Carlyle’s
ideas
(D) describe the major impact that Carlyle had on
other people
(E) characterize the arduous process of reading
Sartor Resartus

52. In context, it can be inferred that the author’s
attitude toward “a Carlylian theocracy” (lines 57-
58) is
(A) disdainful
(B) skeptical
(C) inquisitive
(D) supportive
(E) reverential

53. Which rhetorical strategy does the author adopt in
lines 44-63 (“The character . . . influences us”) ?
(A) She goes on the offensive, berating
opponents of Carlyle for their absence of
wisdom, judgment, and foresight.
(B) She acknowledges but discredits other
arguments, accusing Carlyle’s critics of
misunderstanding the originality of
Carlyle’s ideas.
(C) She claims that most people do not recognize
Carlyle’s genius, suggesting that only a
discerning few are capable of doing so.
(D) She cites facts to counter opposition to
Carlyle’s eminence, claiming that all of
Carlyle’s judgments are unassailable.
(E) She gives examples of Carlyle’s far-reaching
influence, noting that even criticism of
Carlyle implies praise.

54. What purpose do lines 63-74 (“You may . . . own
feeling”) serve?
(A) They contrast the appeal of a writer who
merely confirms his readers’ views with that
of a writer who boldly challenges them.
(B) They develop an analogy between the kinds
of individuals people are attracted to and the
kinds of writing they prefer.
(C) They challenge the idea that writers modify
their ideas to appeal to a wide range of
readers.
(D) They examine whether relationships based on
shared ideas and interests are rewarding to
both parties.
(E) They provide examples from various writers
in which the appearance of good and evil is
deceptive.

55. In lines 75-83 (“When he . . . his opinions”), the
author develops her rhetorical purpose by
(A) contrasting “he” and “we” to set Carlyle apart
and show how he is critical of everyone else
(B) inserting dashes to highlight Carlyle’s most
influential ideas and opinions
(C) employing dramatically urgent adverbs to
create a surprising conclusion for the reader
(D) delaying the conclusion of the independent
clause to build up the reader’s sense of
anticipation
(E) utilizing the parallel “Hear! hear!” and “Oh!
oh!” to imitate a chorus of approval for
Carlyle

Correct Answers:
44.A 45.A 46.C 47.B 48.D 49.C 50.D 51.C 52. 53.E 54.A 55.D

My Answers:
44.A 45.A 46.C 47.B 48.D 49.C 50.D 51.C 52. 53.E 54.A 55.D