Questions 31-43. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The following passage is excerpted from a nonfiction
book published in the late twentieth century.)

Climatologists speak of thunderstorms pregnant
with tornadoes, storm-breeding clouds more than twice
the height of Mount Everest; they speak of funicular
envelopes and anvil clouds with pendant mammati and
(5) of thermal instability of winds in cyclonic vorticity,
of rotatory columns of air torquing at velocities up to
three hundred miles an hour (although no anemometer
in the direct path of a storm has survived), funnels that
can move over the ground at the speed of a strolling
(10) man or at the rate of a barrel-assing semi on the turnpike;
they say the width of the destruction can be the
distance between home plate and deep center field and
its length the hundred miles between New York City
and Philadelphia. A tornado, although more violent
(15) than a much longer lasting hurricane, has a life
measured in minutes, and weathercasters watch it
snuff out as it was born: unnamed.
I know here a grandfather, a man as bald as if a
cyclonic wind had taken his scalp—something wit-
(20) nesses claim has happened elsewhere—who calls
twisters Old Nell, and he threatens to set crying
children outside the back door for her to carry off.
People who have seen Old Nell close, up under her
skirt, talk about her colors: pastel-pink, black, blue,
(25) gray, and a survivor said this: All at once a big hole
opened in the sky with a mass of cherry-red, a yellow
tinge in the center, and another said: a funnel with
beautiful electric-blue light, and a third person: It was
glowing like it was illuminated from the inside. The
(30) witnesses speak of shapes: a formless black mass, a
cone, cylinder, tube, ribbon, pendant, thrashing hose,
dangling lariat, writhing snake, elephant trunk. They
tell of ponds being vacuumed dry, . . . chickens cleanplucked
from beak to bum, water pulled straight up
(35) out of toilet bowls, . . . a wife killed after being jerked
through a car window, a child carried two miles and set
down with only scratches, a Cottonwood Falls mother
(fearful of wind) cured of chronic headaches when a
twister passed harmlessly within a few feet of her
(40) house, and, just south of Chase, a woman blown out of
her living room window and dropped unhurt sixty feet
away and falling unbroken beside her a phonograph
record of “Stormy Weather.”

31.  The author develops the passage primarily
through
(A) accumulation of detail
(B) pro-and-con argument
(C) thesis followed by qualification
(D) assertion supported by evidence
(E) analysis of the ideas of others

32.  The author is best described as
(A) a curious individual who seeks out diverse
information from a variety of sources
(B) a serious scientist who is determined to learn
more about the causes of these storms
(C) an excited eyewitness who is too distracted
to fear for personal safety
(D) a confused novice who is unable to decide
which claims are accurate
(E) an ironic interpreter who comments on the
failures and follies of others

33.  Compared with that of the rest of the passage,
the diction of lines 1-8 (“Climatologists . . .
survived”) is
(A) informal and straightforward
(B) technical and specialized
(C) subjective and impressionistic
(D) speculative and uncertain
(E) understated and euphemistic

34.  The statement “although . . . survived” (lines 7-8)
is an admission that
(A) details about technical equipment are of interest
only to specialists
(B) some tornadoes are so powerful that scientists
cannot quantify them precisely
(C) scientists have abandoned the effort to measure
the wind speed of tornadoes
(D) predicting the path a tornado will take is
extremely difficult
(E) precise measurement of wind speed will aid
climatologists in categorizing tornadoes
accuracy of description.
(D) They draw on familiar information to
particularize an aspect of tornadoes.
(E) They clarify the distinctions between the
language of climatologists and that of
weathercasters.

36.  The first sentence of the passage (lines 1-14)
employs all of the following to convey the power
and variety of tornadoes EXCEPT
(A) abstract generalization
(B) the jargon of climatologists
(C) metaphor
(D) parallel construction
(E) varying degrees of formality

37.  The passage implies that unlike hurricanes,
tornadoes are not given human names because
(A) there are too many of them
(B) their destruction is not as great as that of
hurricanes
(C) they last too short a time
(D) they move too erratically to be plotted
(E) they can appear in any area of the world

38.  When the passage moves from the first paragraph
to the second, it also moves from
(A) overview to illustration
(B) analysis to argumentation
(C) narration of the past to analysis of the past
(D) assertion to definition
(E) objective presentation to ad hominem
argument

39.  The phrase “as bald as if a cyclonic wind had
taken his scalp” (lines 18-19) does all of the
following EXCEPT
(A) describe the grandfather with an image
related to the cyclone
(B) suggest a lighter tone for the paragraph
(C) particularize the first of several sources of
information mentioned in the paragraph
(D) suggest the power of the tornado
(E) express concern about the condition of the
grandfather

40.  In context, the image of being up under Old Nell’s
skirt (lines 23-24) is meant to suggest
(A) safety
(B) confusion
(C) domesticity
(D) familiarity
(E) imprisonment

41.  Which of the following best describes the images
in the last sentence of the passage (lines 32-43) ?
(A) A disdainful rehearsal of other people’s
experiences
(B) A random listing of repulsive or frightening
occurrences
(C) A thorough review of absurd legends
(D) A series of increasingly detailed and implausible
events
(E) A chronological account of major storms

42.  The second paragraph of the passage relies
especially on the use of
(A) cautionary advice
(B) colorful anecdotes
(C) self-deprecating humor
(D) extended analysis
(E) terrifying juxtapositions

43.  The passage ends on a note of
(A) utter exhaustion
(B) genuine relief
(C) catastrophic destructiveness
(D) ominous warning
(E) lighthearted irony

Correct Answers:
31.A 32.A 33.B 34.B 35.D 36.A 37.C 38.A 39.E 40.D 41.D 42.B 43.E 

My Answers:
31.A 32.A 33.B 34.B 35.D 36.A 37.C 38.A 39.E 40.D 41.D 42.B 43.E 