
Such is the emptiness of human enjoyment, that
we are always impatient of the present. Attainment
is followed by neglect, and possession by disgust;
and the malicious remark of the Greek epigrammatist
on marriage may be applied to every other course of
life, that its two days of happiness are the first and the
last1.
Few moments are more pleasing than those in
which the mind is concerting measures for a new
undertaking. From the first hint that wakens the fancy,
till the hour of actual execution, all is improvement
and progress, triumph and felicity. Every hour brings
additions to the original scheme, suggests some new
expedient to secure success, or discovers consequential advantages not hitherto foreseen. While
preparations are made, and materials accumulated,
day glides after day through elysian prospects, and
the heart dances to the song of hope.
Such is the pleasure of projecting, that many
content themselves with a succession of visionary
schemes, and wear out their allotted time in the calm
amusement of contriving what they never attempt or
hope to execute.
Others, not able to feast their imagination with
pure ideas, advance somewhat nearer to the grossness
of action, with great diligence collect whatever is
requisite to their design, and, after a thousand
researches and consultations, are snatched away by
death, as they stand in procinctu2 waiting for a proper
opportunity to begin.
If there were no other end of life, than to find some
adequate solace for every day, I know not whether
any condition could be preferred to that of the man
who involves himself in his own thoughts, and never
suffers experience to show him the vanity of speculation; for no sooner are notions reduced to practice,
than tranquility and confidence forsake the breast;
every day brings its task, and often without bringing
abilities to perform it: difficulties embarrass,
uncertainty perplexes, opposition retards, censure
exasperates, or neglect depresses. We proceed,
because we have begun; we complete our design,
that the labor already spent may not be vain: but
as expectation gradually dies away, the gay smile
of alacrity disappears, we are compelled to implore
severer powers, and trust the event3 to patience and
constancy.
----------------------------------------
1 Paraphrase of the Greek poet Palladas
2 Under arms, ready for action
3 Outcome

Questions:
44. In line 2, “impatient of” is best interpreted as meaning
   (A) eager for
   (B) surprised by
   (C) interested in
   (D) anxious about
   (E) unsatisfied with

45. The second sentence (lines 2-7) implies which of the following conclusions?
   (A) There are two sides to every issue.
   (B) An excess of passion is destructive.
   (C) Lasting happiness will always elude us.
   (D) Ironically, cynicism can make life more tolerable.
   (E) Disappointment is usually productive.

46. The remark of the Greek epigrammatist (lines 4-7) is best interpreted as which of the following?
   (A) Cynical commentary
   (B) Dispassionate analysis
   (C) Bitter accusation
   (D) Ironic advice
   (E) Gentle humor

47. The phrase “elysian prospects” (line 17) suggests the
   (A) danger of certain undertakings
   (B) redemptive function of daily tasks
   (C) natural consequences of determined effort
   (D) simplicity of human aspirations
   (E) sublime pleasures of planning

48. Which of the following best describes the difference between “many” (line 19) and “Others” (line 24)?
   (A) The first group does not intend to act, while the second group does.
   (B) The first group is closer to an ideal, while the second group is fundamentally flawed.
   (C) The first group is defensive, while the second group is belligerent.
   (D) The first group is more positive, while the second group is more pessimistic.
   (E) The first group is able but disinterested, while the second group lacks talent but is willing to act.

49. Which of the following statements best expresses the meaning of lines 31-41 (“If there . . . depresses”)?
   (A) Although difficult, life can be a rewarding experience for many people because of certain small pleasures.
   (B) Under certain circumstances, it is more pleasing to dream and imagine than to put ideas into action.
   (C) In order to complete a task successfully, one must learn from the mistakes of others.
   (D) It is harmful to struggle against all of the difficulties faced in life.
   (E) Little sympathy is given to those who become dispirited by life’s obstacles.

50. The “man” discussed in lines 33-36 is most similar to which of the following?
   (A) “the Greek epigrammatist” (line 4)
   (B) “many” (line 19)
   (C) “Others” (line 24)
   (D) “we” (line 45)
   (E) “severer powers” (line 46)

51. The passage suggests that when “notions” are “reduced to practice” (line 36), people become
   (A) more frivolous and distracted
   (B) more anxious and insecure
   (C) more energetic and dedicated
   (D) less cooperative and sympathetic
   (E) less individualistic and dependable

52. Which of the following best describes the effect of the series in lines 39-41?
   (A) The use of repetition shows the monotony of work.
   (B) The use of chronology indicates the direction of change.
   (C) The use of paradoxical language emphasizes the need for clear thinking.
   (D) The use of concrete detail highlights the differences among possible outcomes.
   (E) The use of parallelism heightens the sense of disillusionment.

53. Lines 41-43 (“We proceed . . . vain”) can best be described as
   (A) a set of negative images that undermines the merit of the speaker’s argument
   (B) a pessimistic explanation of human motivation
   (C) an exhortation to improve typical human behavior
   (D) a metaphoric encapsulation of the speaker’s thesis
   (E) a laudatory commentary on human ambition

54. Which of the following is true of the voice of the passage?
   (A) It becomes strident when the speaker anticipates or refutes objections.
   (B) It shifts from colloquial to formal expression.
   (C) It moves from a speculative to an emphatic tone.
   (D) It reveals the speaker’s cautiousness about making assertions and generalizations.
   (E) It conveys a sense of confidence and authority.

55. The principal contrast in the passage is between
   (A) planning and acting
   (B) thinking and feeling
   (C) beginning and ending
   (D) past and present
   (E) success and failure

Correct Answers:
44.E 45.C 46.A 47.E 48.A 49.B 50.B 51.B 52.E 53.B 54.E 55.A

My Answers:
44.E 45.C 46.A 47.E 48.A 49.B 50.B 51.B 52.E 53.B 54.C 55.D