One paper, published in 2004,1 looked at the
increase in observed cirriform clouds over the US
between the years 1974 and 1994. [The paper] . . .
concluded that the increase in air traffic and its
resulting contrails had led to increasing cirriform
cloud cover. Estimations of the expected warming
effects of this increase were equivalent to .36°F per
decade. Amazingly, the effect of the increase in
cirriform clouds alone was considered sufficient to
account for almost the entire rise in temperatures
across the USA during the last 25 years. This is a
major claim, for though it relates to localised warming
effects, not global ones, the report suggests that the
high clouds that develop from contrails are a huge
contributor to surface warming.
Another key paper, published in 2003,2 was equally
sobering. Here, the scientists correlated the changing
distribution of cirriform clouds over Europe from
weather satellite images with precise records of the
varying concentrations of air traffic during the same
periods. The report concluded that the warming
attributable to cirriform clouds appearing to develop
as a result of air traffic was ten times greater than that
expected to result from aviation CO2 emissions.
Now, it is hard to make a meaningful comparison
between the environmental impacts of such differing
factors as, on the one hand, aircraft CO2 emissions,
which remain in the atmosphere for over a hundred
years and have a cumulative and global effect on
surface warming and, on the other hand, aviationinduced cloud cover, whose warming effects are both
localised and temporary. But these studies suggest
that aviation’s contrails are leading to other high
clouds that are a more significant factor in global
warming than its CO2 emissions.
Air traffic is estimated to be increasing by
five percent a year,3 with most of the increase being
in contrail-forming long-haul flights. Ironically,
modern aircraft engines—designed to burn more
efficiently and so emit less CO2 —actually create
more contrails.
A team of scientists at Imperial College in London
has been looking at one possible way to reduce
contrails: stopping aircraft from flying so high.
Using computer simulations designed for air-traffic
management, they have considered the implications
of imposing restrictions on European cruising
altitudes to keep aircraft below contrail-forming
levels.4 One problem with such a system is that the
lower an airplane flies, the denser the air it has to
travel through and so the more fuel it needs to burn—
something that has financial implications as well as
those of increased greenhouse gas emissions.
So the team evaluated a system that imposed the
highest possible ‘contrail-free’ ceiling on cruising
altitudes, which could be calculated dynamically in
response to changes in atmospheric temperature and
humidity.
‘If you had that cap on the flights in Europe—’
explained Dr. Bob Noland, one of the scientists
behind the project, ‘which would result in a
four percent increase in CO2 emissions from
increased fuel consumption—our conclusion was
that the reduction in contrails would make it a good
policy.’ Their findings suggested that, though there
would certainly be implementation difficulties, such
as increased congestion and longer flight times, the
system could reduce contrail formation by between
65 and 95 percent, compared with just a four percent
rise in CO2 emissions.
Without the contrails it seems that there would
be a considerable reduction in the overall amount
of thin, ground-warming cirriform clouds. ‘The
CO2 emissions from aircraft,’ says Noland, ‘while
significant and growing, are not going to make that
much difference even if we cut them down, but if we
reduce contrails by 90 percent tomorrow—which we
think is entirely feasible—you would get a major
impact right away. Stopping the contrails would bring
an immediate benefit.’
-------------------------------------------------------
1 Minnis, P.; Ayers, J. K.; Palikonda, R.; Phan, D.:
‘Contrails, Cirrus Trends, and Climate’. 2004, Journal
of Climate, 17.
2 Mannstein, H. & Schumann, U.: ‘Observations of
Contrails and Cirrus over Europe’. Proceedings of the
AAC Conference, 30 June–3 July 2003, Friedrichshafen,
Germany.
3 IPCC Special Report on Aviation and the Global
Atmosphere, 1999.
4 Williams, V. & Noland, R. B.: ‘Variability of contrail
formation conditions and the implications for policies to
reduce the climate impacts of aviation’, not yet
published.

Questions:
15. The primary goal of the passage is to
   (A) compare two recent scientific studies on global warming
   (B) explore the relationship of air traffic to atmospheric temperatures
   (C) argue for the necessity of limiting air travel in Europe
   (D) review a chronological series of studies on cirriform clouds
   (E) examine research methods used to gauge atmospheric temperatures

16. According to the passage, the relationship between aircraft contrails and cirriform clouds is best expressed by which of the following?
   (A) Aircraft contrails decrease the number of cirriform clouds that form.
   (B) Aircraft contrails have no significant impact on the number of cirriform clouds that form.
   (C) Aircraft contrails increase the number of cirriform clouds that form.
   (D) Aircraft contrails are only one of many sources of cirriform clouds.
   (E) No conclusive evidence exists about the relationship between aircraft contrails and cirriform cloud formation.

17. In the first paragraph (lines 1-15), the author relies on which of the following to establish credibility?
   (A) Concession to an opposing view
   (B) Data from a scientific study
   (C) Details of the procedure for a particular experiment
   (D) Conclusions agreed to by all scientists
   (E) Ad hominem arguments

18. The function of the note in line 1 is to
   (A) document the specific source for an empirical claim
   (B) offer an explanation of what is meant by a term
   (C) prove that the author used print as well as online sources
   (D) redirect a discussion begun in the body of the paper cited
   (E) establish the credibility of one source at the expense of another

19. The word “Amazingly” (line 8) emphasizes the author’s
   (A) confusion about the research data
   (B) dismay that nothing has been done to reduce the number of contrails
   (C) surprise at the conclusion of a study
   (D) excitement about the sophistication of scientific instruments
   (E) frustration with the methodology used in a study

20. The author states “This is a major claim” (lines 11-12) in order to
   (A) expose the logical fallacy of a popular argument
   (B) explore ways in which global warming is a localized phenomenon
   (C) challenge the view of those who feel that the claim is unsubstantiated
   (D) call attention to a claim by highlighting its importance
   (E) validate the counterclaim that temperatures have not risen in the last 25 years

21. The author’s strategy in paragraph three (lines 25-35) can best be described as presenting a
   (A) generalization that is substantiated by a detailed example
   (B) problem followed by a particular recommendation
   (C) controversial proposal followed by a counterproposal
   (D) qualifying statement that is modified by a following statement
   (E) summary followed by a disclaimer

22. The author’s tone in paragraph three (lines 25-35) can best be described as
   (A) strident
   (B) disbelieving
   (C) relieved
   (D) uncertain
   (E) reasoned

23. Lines 38-41 (“Ironically . . . contrails”) point out
   (A) an unexpected consequence of a technological improvement
   (B) an innovative strategy for evaluating the effects of contrails
   (C) an elegant design solution for a puzzling problem
   (D) the consequences of failing to follow a carefully designed plan
   (E) a misunderstanding about how types of transportation affect the environment

24. According to lines 59-70, aircraft flying lower would result in all of the following consequences EXCEPT
   (A) burning more fuel
   (B) increasing the number of cirriform clouds
   (C) emitting more CO2
   (D) increasing financial costs
   (E) producing fewer contrails

25. Lines 65-70 (“Their . . . emissions”) are best described as
   (A) an evaluation of the methodology used in the study
   (B) an illustration of why the study was needed
   (C) a request for a plan to implement the study recommendations
   (D) a summary of the primary conclusions of the study
   (E) a comparison of one study with another

26. What aspect of the Williams and Noland study is emphasized in the last paragraph?
   (A) The ease of implementing the recommended flight restrictions
   (B) The need to further reduce CO2 emissions
   (C) The rapidity with which improvement will occur
   (D) The necessity of doing additional research
   (E) The widespread support the proposal has accrued

27. In relationship to the passage as a whole, notes 1 and 2 do which of the following?
   (A) Explain the shortcomings of previous studies of global warming
   (B) Show that European and American governments are jointly funding research on contrails
   (C) Provide conflicting commentary about links between contrails and global warming
   (D) Offer explanations of what constitutes global warming
   (E) Document studies that show how contrails contribute to global warming

28. Which of the following is an accurate reading of note 2?
   (A) The 2003 AAC Conference took place in Friedrichshafen, Germany.
   (B) The presentation “Observations of Contrails and Cirrus over Europe” was given daily from June 30 to July 3.
   (C) Mannstein wrote and Schumann edited the conference proceedings.
   (D) The conference title was “Observations of Contrails and Cirrus over Europe.”
   (E) The AAC Conference is held annually in Germany.

29. Taken as a whole, the notes suggest that
   (A) the author relied primarily on scientific journals for non-specialists
   (B) research on contrails and cirriform clouds began in 1999
   (C) the author has consulted both published and unpublished sources
   (D) scientists in Europe have led the way in researching contrails
   (E) the author has written highly technical articles
   
Correct Answers: 
15.B 16.C 17.B 18.A 19.C 20.D 21.D 22.E 23.A 24.B 25.D 26.C 27.E 28.A 29.C  

My Answers:
15.B 16.C 17.B 18.A 19.C 20.D 21.D 22.E 23.A 24.B 25.D 26.C 27.E 28.A 29.C  