(The following passage is from an essay published in
the late twentieth century.)
I am a writer. And by that definition, I am someone
who has always loved language. I am fascinated by
language in daily life. I spend a great deal of my time
Line thinking about the power of language—the way it can
5 evoke an emotion, a visual image, a complex idea, or
a simple truth. Language is the tool of my trade. And I
use them all—all the Englishes I grew up with.
Recently, I was made keenly aware of the different
Englishes I do use. I was giving a talk to a large group
10 of people, the same talk I had already given to half a
dozen other groups. The nature of the talk was about
my writing, my life, and my book The Joy Luck Club.
The talk was going along well enough, until I remembered one major difference that made the whole talk
15 sound wrong. My mother was in the room. And it was
perhaps the first time she had heard me give a lengthy
speech using the kind of English I have never used
with her. I was saying things like, “The intersection
of memory upon imagination” and “There is an aspect
20 of my fiction that relates to thus-and-thus”—a speech
filled with carefully wrought grammatical phrases, burdened, it suddenly seemed to me, with nominalized
forms, past perfect tenses, conditional phrases, all the
forms of standard English that I had learned in school
25 and through books, the forms of English I did not use
at home with my mother.
Just last week, I was walking down the street with
my mother, and I again found myself conscious of the
English I was using, the English I do use with her. We
30 were talking about the price of new and used furniture
and I heard myself saying this: “Not waste money
that way.” My husband was with us as well, and he
didn’t notice any switch in my English. And then I
realized why. It’s because over the twenty years we’ve
35 been together I’ve often used that same kind of English
with him, and sometimes he even uses it with me. It
has become our language of intimacy, a different sort
of English that relates to family talk, the language I
grew up with.
So you’ll have some idea of what this family talk I
heard sounds like, I’ll quote what my mother said during a recent conversation which I videotaped and then
transcribed. During this conversation, my mother was
talking about a political gangster in Shanghai who had
the same last name as her family’s, Du, and how the
gangster in his early years wanted to be adopted by
her family, which was rich by comparison. Later, the
gangster became more powerful, far richer than my
mother’s family, and one day showed up at my
mother’s wedding to pay his respects. Here’s what
she said in part:
“Du Yusong having business like fruit stand. Like
off the street kind. He is Du like Du Zong—but not
Tsung-ming Island people. The local people call
putong, the river east side, he belong to that side local
people. That man want to ask Du Zong father take him
in like become own family. Du Zong father wasn’t
look down on him, but didn’t take seriously, until that
man big like become a mafia. Now important person,
very hard to inviting him. Chinese way, came only to
show respect, don’t stay for dinner. Respect for making big celebration, he shows up. Mean gives lots of
respect. Chinese custom. Chinese social life that way.
If too important won’t have to stay too long. He come
to my wedding. I didn’t see, I heard it. I gone to boy’s
side, they have YMCA dinner. Chinese age I was
nineteen.”
You should know that my mother’s expressive
command of English belies how much she actually
understands. She reads the Forbes report, listens to
Wall Street Week, converses daily with her stockbroker, reads all of Shirley MacLaine’s books with
ease— all kinds of things I can’t begin to understand.
Yet some of my friends tell me they understand
50 percent of what my mother says. Some say they
understand 80 to 90 percent. Some say they understand none of it, as if she were speaking pure Chinese.
But to me, my mother’s English is perfectly clear,
perfectly natural. It’s my mother tongue. Her language,
as I hear it, is vivid, direct, full of observation and
imagery. That was the language that helped shape the
way I saw things, expressed things, made sense of the
world.

Questions:
1. The final sentence of the first paragraph (lines 6-7) is unusual in the way it uses a
   (A) first person pronoun
   (B) verb tense
   (C) plural noun
   (D) capital letter
   (E) dangling participle

2. The function of the first paragraph is to
   (A) explain the purpose of the passage
   (B) define the relationship between literary language and everyday speech
   (C) describe the author’s writing process
   (D) characterize the author and her interests
   (E) establish the author’s concern about the misuse of language

3. In context, “carefully wrought” (line 21) suggests both
   (A) precision and formlessness
   (B) beauty and permanence
   (C) simplicity and perfection
   (D) nervousness and self-control
   (E) technical mastery and craftsmanship

4. The word “burdened” (lines 21-22) modifies
   (A) “things” (line 18)
   (B) “intersection” (line 18)
   (C) “aspect” (line 19)
   (D) “speech” (line 20)
   (E) “me” (line 22)

5. During the talk described in paragraph 2, the author responds to her mother’s presence by
   (A) altering the vocabulary and syntax she had been using to express her ideas to the group
   (B) regretting that there are certain interests she does not share with her mother
   (C) thinking about how audience determines the appropriateness of a style
   (D) reexamining the mother-daughter themes in her latest work
   (E) deciding that her mother does not need to learn academic English

6. The third paragraph provides
   (A) a concrete example of how writers transform personal experience into art
   (B) a series of assertions about the nature of language
   (C) a rationale for the author’s shifting allegiances
   (D) an anecdote that reinforces ideas expressed in the previous paragraphs
   (E) an argument that will be challenged in the remainder of the passage

7. Which of the following is true of the mother’s quoted speech (lines 52-67)?
   (A) The author expects the speech to be comprehensible enough to enable her to make a point about her mother’s use of language.
   (B) The author is concerned that her mother will change the way she talks because she is being videotaped.
   (C) The author uses the speech as an example of the way her mother talked when the author was young, not the way her mother talks now.
   (D) The author wants to suggest that it is her mother’s accent, not her syntax, that makes her English difficult to understand.
   (E) The author is more interested in what her mother says in the speech than in the way she says it.

8. The effect of using the second person pronoun in lines 40 and 68 is to
    (A) emphasize the author’s awareness of an audience
    (B) illustrate the effectiveness of using informal diction when speaking publicly
    (C) indicate a shift in focus from the personal to the impersonal
    (D) echo the style of the author’s talk described in paragraph two
    (E) enlarge the scope of the discussion to include differences in usage by native speakers of English

9. The first two sentences in the last paragraph (lines 68-73) do which of the following?
    (A) Define ambiguous terms
    (B) Develop vivid metaphors
    (C) Explain convoluted reasoning
    (D) Resolve disagreements
    (E) Present contrasts

10. In the last paragraph, the author insists on the
    (A) importance of an expressive command of standard English
    (B) sophistication of some of her mother’s English language skills
    (C) inherent value of the books her mother chooses to read
    (D) need for language learners to practice on a wide variety of written materials
    (E) value of reading as a means of improving the language skills of nonnative speakers

11. In the context of the whole passage, the last sentence (lines 81-83) serves to
    (A) establish that the author associates her mother’s language with the past, not the present
    (B) validate the form of English the author hears from her mother
    (C) discredit the form of English the author learned from books
    (D) summarize the characteristics of the mother’s way of speaking
    (E) reiterate the thesis that children imitate the language of their parents

12. The author uses directly quoted speech at various points in the passage to
    (A) clarify the complexity of the decisions writers have to make
    (B) establish her credibility as a well-read academic
    (C) emphasize the underlying similarities of languages
    (D) show how her own understanding of English evolved
    (E) illustrate various forms of English

13. Which of the following best characterizes the voice of the author in the passage as a whole?
    (A) A lonely, private voice
    (B) An informal, public voice
    (C) A formal, speech-making voice
    (D) An ironic, disillusioned voice
    (E) A scholarly, detached voice

14. A central concept in the passage is the notion that
    (A) English has been enriched by borrowing from other languages
    (B) speakers use different forms of language for different purposes
    (C) English is easier to understand than to speak
    (D) creative writers should first master the standard form of their native language
    (E) literary conventions must often be sacrificed for elegance of expression

   
Correct Answers: 
1.C 2.D 3.E 4.D 5.C 6.D 7.A 8.A 9.E 10.B 11.B 12.E 13.B 14.B 

My Answers:
1.C 2.D 3.E 4.D 5.C 6.D 7.A 8.A 9.E 10.B 11.B 12.E 13.B 14.B 