Questions 1-11. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(This passage is from an essay published in the 1980s
by a writer who was born in Trinidad, a former
British colony.)

Childish memory recreates one of those Trinidad
afternoons of burning heat, glare, heat-waves making
watery mirages on the asphalt; I seem to remember
how the wind stirred the wild grasses growing along
(5) the verges. An aircraft was standing on the runway.
'Look! Look!' Someone--presumably my brother--
was waving a handkerchief at us from a port-hole.
I seem to recall too the roar of the engines, the aircraft
climbing into a blank, blue sky, becoming smaller as
Jo it rose higher, shrinking into an ever-diminishing
point of metallic glitter. . . disappearing.
I would have been about five years old at the
time --the baby of the family. On that day my brother
had disappeared into regions unknown to me; and so
(15) became, as I have said, cloaked with an unreality
I found impenetrable. But this unreality, however
abstract, however bloodless, was loaded with
implication for me. My brother, by reason of his
academic successes, had established a pattern, a set
(20) of standards. Willy-nilly, these were transformed
into a sort of Absolute--small-island, colonial style:
willy-nilly, my character, my actual performance, my
'promise', would be judged against the expectations
generated by that Absolute. He had won an
(25) 'Exhibition' (a type of scholarship) to a good
secondary school. Would /? He had won a Trinidad
Government scholarship that had taken him to
Oxford. Would /? Invariably --how could it be
otherwise?--I suffered by comparison. No one ever
(30) quite lives up to the demands of an Absolute. You
gaze into mirrors--school reports, other faces,
overheard opinions--and all you ever see reflected
are your own inadequacies; the treasons you are
alleged to have inflicted on a self-contained, self-
(35) sustaining regime of preconceived and unexamined
expectations. I became 'sensitised' at an early age to
discourtesy and stupidity. Those without imagination
are doomed to these twin vices. Looking back on
myself, I see that I was a difficult, moody and
(40) enigmatic child. It was a form of self-protection
against the tyrannies that sought to imprison me,
that offered me neither compassion nor courtesy.
And--perhaps--the child has developed into a
difficult, moody and enigmatic man. He doesn't like
(45) to think he is. . . but he recognizes, glancing into the
mirrors that offer themselves, he may be.
Incidents come to mind--some of which still cause
me pain. There was that most august relative of mine
who (I was probably about ten years old at the time),
(50) when I baulked at eating with my hands--I can no
longer remember what led up to that petty action of
rebellion--remarked: 'Wait until you get to Oxford.
You haven't got in there yet. Remember that.' Now,
even at so tender an age, could I possibly forget?

1. The atmosphere conveyed by the first paragraph
(lines 1-11) can best be described as
(A) resigned yet longing
(B) thoughtful yet dismayed
(C) ephemeral yet intense
(D) sentimental yet confused
(E) chaotic yet disciplined

2. The author uses the phrase "however abstract,
however bloodless" in lines 16-17 primarily to
emphasize that
(A) he was too young to understand the
significance of attending Oxford
(B) he had difficulty in distinguishing
between reality and unreality
(C) his brother's departure seemed innocuous
but had serious ramifications
(D) his brother was serenely unaware of
things that occurred around him
(E) his brother's departure made the author
feel disconnected from his family

3. The repeated use of the term "willy-nilly"
(lines 20-22) primarily
(A) reveals the ignorance of the author as
a child
(B) conveys the author's sense of haphazard
unfairness
(C) suggests that the older brother's success
is attributable to luck
(D) implies that the rivalry between the author
and his brother is normal
(E) interjects a humorous note into an otherwise
somber narrative

4. The "expectations" (line 23) are primarily
characterized as
(A) difficult to attain because of the author's
intellectual limitations
(B) more the products of the outside world
than of the island society
(C) less problematic in reality than in the
author's defensive recollections
(D) daunting because the standards they
imply seem impossible to meet
(E) arbitrarily applied based on judgments made
by the author's brother

5. The use of italics in lines 24-28 primarily
(A) highlights the author's admiration for
his brother
(B) shifts the point of view of the author
(C) emphasizes the author's feelings of sadness
(D) stresses the informal nature of the narrative
(E) dramatizes the comparisons between the
brothers

6. Which best describes the function of the statement
"Tt was . . . courtesy" (lines 40-42) ?
(A) It presents a brief digression.
(B) It provides a transition to another topic.
(C) It explains the statement in the previous
sentence.
(D) It reiterates the point of the previous
sentence.
(E) It summarizes the main point of the
first paragraph.

7. In context, the use of the word "tyrannies"
(line 41) conveys the author's
(A) sense of being dominated by others
(B) view that the world is usually cruel
(C) naive acceptance of the rules of others
(D) selfish desire to control others
(E) childish hurt at being ostracized

8. In the context of the passage, lines 43-46
("And ... may be") serve primarily to
(A) highlight the way in which the author
shrinks from introspection
(B) reveal how the author has changed
since childhood
(C) shift the emphasis from the younger
to the older brother
(D) introduce an entirely new voice and
perspective into the narration
(E) extend the implications of past events
into the present

9. Lines 44-46 ("He doesn't . . . may be") are
notable mainly because the author
(A) admits that he was not an easy child to know
(B) uses ellipsis to express personal confusion
and despair over the past
(C) acknowledges his struggle to accept how his
past has affected his identity
(D) metaphorically explains that we can never
see ourselves with mirrorlike clarity
(E) rationalizes his childish behavior

10. What is the primary function of the final question
of the passage (lines 53-54) ?
(A) To convey the author's sense of lasting
bitterness
(B) To query the value of the sentiments raised
earlier in the passage
(C) To shift the tone of the narrative from anger
to acceptance
(D) To hint that the author no longer harbors
concerns about his own achievements
(E) To challenge the accuracy of the author's
memories

11. The author's attitude toward his past is best
described as
(A) nostalgic wistfulness
(B) reflective resignation
(C) impulsive vengeance
(D) calm equanimity
(E) childish rebelliousness

Correct Answers:
1. C  2. C  3. B  4. D  5. E  6. C  7. A  8. E  9. C  10. A  11. B

My Answers:
1. D  2. C  3. A  4. D  5. E  6. C  7. A  8. E  9. C  10. A  11. D