The psychologist Gary Klein tells the story of a
team of firefighters that entered a house in which the
kitchen was on fire.1 Soon after they started hosing
down the kitchen, the commander heard himself
shout, “Let’s get out of here!” without realizing why.
The floor collapsed almost immediately after the
firefighters escaped. Only after the fact did the
commander realize that the fire had been unusually
quiet and that his ears had been unusually hot.
Together, these impressions prompted what he called
a “sixth sense of danger.” He had no idea what was
wrong, but he knew something was wrong. It turned
out that the heart of the fire had not been in the
kitchen but in the basement beneath where the men
had stood.
We have all heard such stories of expert intuition:
the chess master who walks past a street game and
announces “White mates in three” without stopping,
or the physician who makes a complex diagnosis after
a single glance at a patient. Expert intuition strikes us
as magical, but it is not. Indeed, each of us performs
feats of intuitive expertise many times each day. Most
of us are pitch-perfect in detecting anger in the first
word of a telephone call, recognize as we enter a
room that we were the subject of the conversation,
and quickly react to subtle signs that the driver of
the car in the next lane is dangerous. Our everyday
intuitive abilities are no less marvelous than the
striking insights of an experienced firefighter or
physician—only more common.
The psychology of accurate intuition involves no
magic. Perhaps the best short statement of it is by the
great Herbert Simon, who studied chess masters2 and
showed that after thousands of hours of practice they
come to see the pieces on the board differently from
the rest of us. You can feel Simon’s impatience with
the mythologizing of expert intuition when he writes:
“The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given
the expert access to information stored in memory,
and the information provides the answer. Intuition is
nothing more and nothing less than recognition.”3
We are not surprised when a two-year-old looks at
a dog and says “doggie!” because we are used to the
miracle of children learning to recognize and name
things. Simon’s point is that the miracles of expert
intuition have the same character. Valid intuitions
develop when experts have learned to recognize
familiar elements in a new situation and to act in
a manner that is appropriate to it. Good intuitive
judgments come to mind with the same immediacy
as “doggie!”
Unfortunately, professionals’ intuitions do not all
arise from true expertise. Many years ago I visited the
chief investment officer of a large financial firm, who
told me that he had just invested some tens of millions
of dollars in the stock of Ford Motor Company. When
I asked how he had made that decision, he replied that
he had recently attended an automobile show and had
been impressed. “Boy, do they know how to make a
car!” was his explanation. He made it very clear that
he trusted his gut feeling and was satisfied with
himself and with his decision. I found it remarkable
that he had apparently not considered the one question
that an economist would call relevant: Is Ford stock
currently underpriced? Instead, he had listened to his
intuition; he liked the cars, he liked the company,
and he liked the idea of owning its stock. From what
we know about the accuracy of stock picking, it is
reasonable to believe that he did not know what he
was doing.
The specific heuristics that Amos [Tversky, the
author’s colleague] and I studied provide little help in
understanding how the executive came to invest in
Ford stock, but a broader conception of heuristics now
exists, which offers a good account. An important
advance is that emotion now looms much larger in
our understanding of intuitive judgments and choices
than it did in the past. The executive’s decision
would today be described as an example of the affect
heuristic,4 where judgments and decisions are guided
directly by feelings of liking and disliking, with little
deliberation or reasoning.
-----------------------------------------------------
1 kitchen was on fire: Gary A. Klein, Sources of Power
(Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999).
2 studied chess masters: Herbert Simon was one of the
great scholars of the twentieth century, whose
discoveries and inventions ranged from political science
(where he began his career) to economics (in which he
won a Nobel Prize) to computer science (in which he
was a pioneer) and to psychology.
3 “The situation . . . recognition”: Herbert A. Simon,
“What Is an Explanation of Behavior?” Psychological
Science 3 (1992): 150–61.
4 affect heuristic: The concept of the affect heuristic was
developed by Paul Slovic, a classmate of Amos’s at
Michigan and lifelong friend.


12. In the first paragraph (lines 1-15), the author
introduces his topic by
(A) describing a behavioral paradox that had
previously defied explanation
(B) indicating how his research extends the
theoretical work of Gary Klein
(C) showing why the research he conducts is so
critically important
(D) providing a dramatic example of a
phenomenon that he will examine
(E) illustrating a controversial theory by
Gary Klein that he will analyze

13. In the second paragraph (lines 16-30), the author's
attitude can best be described as
(A) condescending toward those who view
intuition as a "magical" ability
(B) critical of the way science ignores
"everyday" acts of intuition
(C) matter-of-fact regarding the "feats"
that most people can perform
(D) curious regarding what constitutes
"pitch-perfect" instincts
(E) astounded by the "striking" deeds of
those who possess expertise

14. The author most likely provides the information
in note 2 in order to
(A) indicate that chess masters understand
psychology
(B) explain what he has learned from
Herbert Simon
(C) relate Herbert Simon's work to that of most
psychologists
(D) show the types of subjects that inform
psychology
(E) describe Herbert Simon's broad experience

15. Which statement explains the structure and
purpose of Herbert Simon's assertion
(lines 38-41) ?
(A) He describes the difference between skill
and talent by using parallel sentences to
compare the two concepts.
(B) He emphasizes the relationship between
thought and action by contrasting passive
and active constructions.
(C) He examines a technique for achieving goals
by using a series to indicate how a person
might visualize success.
(D) He illustrates a method of critical thinking by
using two sentences to show a hypothesis
and conclusion.
(E) He clarifies a complex thought process by
using independent clauses to indicate how
one idea links to the next.

16. According to note 3, Herbert Simon's article
appears in
(A) a book in a series
(B) an academic anthology
(C) ascholarly journal
(D) a multivolume encyclopedia
(E) an annual conference report

17. Which purpose does the discussion of the
"doggie" (lines 42-45) primarily serve?
(A) It contextualizes the accomplishments of
experts.
(B) It demonstrates the flexibility of the young
brain.
(C) It shows how learning takes place in the
brain.
(D) It suggests we are all capable of appreciating
experts.
(E) It indicates the importance of early
experiences.

18. As it is used in line 46, the word "character"
refers toa
(A) sign or symbol
(B) professional perspective
(C) quality or nature
(D) moral reputation
(E) personality type

19. The author discusses "Valid intuitions" (line 46)
to set up a distinction between
(A) cynical and naive responses
(B) analytical and emotional reasoning
(C) authentic and imagined achievements
(D) natural reactions and false mannerisms
(E) intellectual desire and financial motivation

20. Which of the following strategies does the author
employ in the fifth paragraph (lines 52-70) ?
(A) He uses an interrogative sentence to
summarize the chief investment officer' s
main concern about Ford.
(B) He uses a colon to emphasize the significance
of "the one question" that an economist
would find "relevant."
(C) He cites the chief investment officer to
demonstrate the enthusiasm with which an
informed expert forms an opinion.
(D) He repeats "he liked" in a series to show
his own support of the chief investment
officer's decision.
(E) He contrasts "what we know" and what
"he did not know" to suggest that anyone
could be an investor.

21. Which of the following pieces of information
does note 4 provide?
(A) An acknowledgment of a theoretical
contribution
(B) A description of the origins of heuristic study
(C) An example of a professional rivalry
(D) A comparison of different heuristics
(E) A definition of the affect heuristic

22. In the final paragraph (lines 71-82), the author
concludes the passage by discussing
(A) a peer review that confirms how influential
he is among psychologists
(B) an application of his research in other fields
and subject areas
(C) aconcept that indicates the direction of new
research in his field
(D) a case study that shows the consequences of
avoiding intuitive judgments
(E) an experiment that reveals the emotional
outlook of modern people

23. In the passage, the author develops his argument
primarily through
(A) scholarly debate
(B) clinical observations
(C) patient interviews
(D) informal anecdotes
(E) expert testimony

24. Which of the following best characterizes the
author's attitude toward other psychologists?
(A) Congratulatory
(B) Respectful
(C) Grateful
(D) Envious
(E) Wary

25. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) explain the logic behind intuitive judgments
(B) discredit a theory accepted by most
psychologists
(C) problematize a method of improving
reasoning skills
(D) reveal a gap in the current state of
psychological research
(E) indicate concerns about the rise of emotional
decision making

Correct Answers: 
12. D  13. C  14. E  15. E  16. C  17. A  18. C  19. B  20. B  21. A  22. C  23. D  24. B  25. A

My Answers: 
12. D  13. C  14. E  15. D  16. B  17. A  18. C  19. B  20. B  21. A  22. C  23. E  24. B  25. A