There is something preemptive about laziness,
something that smacks of a decision to refuse all
offers even before they’re put on the table. The lazy
don’t come to the table. And I think there is a
philosophical component to this reluctance. At
bottom, laziness is negation, turning one’s back on
what others neutrally, cheerfully, or resignedly go to
meet. The truly lazy—the ones who cannot bring
themselves to greet and meet, to scheme and struggle,
to interact on a daily basis with others—are, in effect,
refusing to affix their signatures to the social contract.
Given that success hinges on understanding, using,
and occasionally subverting the social contract, the
lazy don’t stand a chance.
The secret to failure is far more elusive than the
secret to success. Lagging behind when one could
have advanced isn’t just about laziness; it’s about all
the things that psychoanalysis takes a rather serious
view of—the absence of love, coping with anger,
rationalizing failure, the reluctance to supersede or
replace one’s father. Heavy stuff, and perhaps true,
but the acknowledgment of which never put a dime in
my pocket.
Laziness just is. It’s like being freckled or color
blind. Indeed, when the world was younger,
intelligent people believed they had no choice in the
matter of who was naughty or nice, passive or active.
Hippocrates’s theory1 of “temperament,” which
anchored Western medicine for two millennia, put
some muscle behind varieties of human behavior.
Well, not muscle exactly—more like four potentially
pathogenic substances, or cardinal humors, whose
relative proportion in the blood determined
personality and moods. The Church fathers, as it turns
out, were on the right track; only the messenger and
manner of delivery were wrong. It’s not black bile or
phlegm that causes Oblomov-like2 symptoms but a
certain kind of electrochemical activity in the left
frontal lobe of the brain, or whatever. The point is,
everyone enters the world predisposed physiologically
to think and feel in certain ways.
Happenstance also has its place; I don’t deny that.
But do any two people react identically to the same
stimuli? The event that jump-starts one person’s
psyche does not necessarily have the same effect on
another’s. It’s one thing to concede that certain
tendencies can be reinforced or weakened by
experience; it is quite another to think that some
event during my formative years, which might have
occurred but didn’t, would have had me sharing a
bucket of Kentucky Fried Chicken with Bill Gates,
or loping down a runway in Milan wearing a spiffy
outfit by Valentino. In short, there’s no contradiction
in thinking that temperament defines you and thinking
that you’re still in charge of your life. Temperament is
the gas, but you’ve got a foot on the pedal.
Because of some unpredictable sequence of
recombinant DNA and early experiences, I always
knew I’d write things. I also knew I was an incurable
lazybones. This accounts, in my case, for the odd
tension between writing and laziness, which
Samuel Beckett describes to a T: “There is nothing to
express, nothing with which to express, nothing from
which to express, no power to express, no desire to
express, together with the obligation to express.” As a
solid constituent of the couchant3 class, I can say that
the obligation to express does not weigh heavily. Still,
I have my moments—moments when I feel like
addressing the fading shimmer of my own skin.
I want answers. Or, more precisely, one big answer.
In a sense, life is like an examination that has only
one question—the one that asks why you’re taking
the exam in the first place. Having been instructed to
“fill in the blank” (an aptly phrased command), you
ponder, and then wonder if perhaps the truest answer
is no answer at all. But in the end, because there is,
after all, plenty of time to reflect and you do want to
leave the room, you hunker down and fill in the blank.
My own response is hardly profound or incisive: I’m
taking the exam because I like writing sentences, and
because—well, what else do I have to do?
As for the laziness that moves with me wherever
I go, I have finally found a way to make it “work”
for me. Lassitude, aloofness, low-grade depression,
coupled with a healthy respect for money, have
gradually steered me to the obvious vocation.
Yes, dear reader, I have become a screenwriter.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
1 Hippocrates was an ancient Greek physician who believed that bodily
fluids, or humors, influenced human health and disposition.
2 Oblomov is a nobleman in a nineteenth-century Russian novel who is
famous for his lethargy and inertia.
3 lying on the belly with the head raised, like a heraldic lion on a coat
of arms

Questions:
26. Which statement provides the best rhetorical
analysis of the first sentence (lines 1-3) ?
(A) The author betrays a sense of resentment by
using the modification "even before."
(B) The author adopts an authoritative stance on
the topic by beginning with "There is."
(C) The author defines the scope of his argument
by referring to "all offers."
(D) The author expresses his anger by selecting
the confrontational verb "smacks."
(E) The author suggests the difficulty of the
topic by describing "something" in two
contrasting ways.

27. In lines 3 and 4, the author uses the word "table"
idiomatically to discuss
(A) religious belief
(B) cultural awareness
(C) civic participation
(D) financial obligation
(E) legal responsibility

28. In lines 12-14 ("Given ... chance"), the author's
primary purpose is to
(A) argue against the authority of the social
contract
(B) trivialize the difficulties of being lazy
(C) discourage the reader's identification with
lazy people
(D) assert the power of the social contract
(E) counsel the reader to be wary of lazy people

29. The author's writing in lines 5-14
("At bottom... chance') is characterized
by the use of
(A) short sentences that accentuate key facts and
opinions
(B) series that broaden the scope of the
discussion
(C) adjectives used as nouns to criticize different
groups
(D) dashes to indicate hesitation
(E) abstract language to obscure his point

30. In the second paragraph (lines 15-23), the author
primarily implies that laziness is a
(A) factor contributing to failure but not the sole
cause
(B) common characteristic among intellectuals
and artists
(C) personal trait that people try to hide from one
another
(D) psychological problem that may be cured
through therapy
(E) coping strategy that requires time to perfect

31. The author's tone in the statement "Laziness just
is" (line 24) can best be described as
(A) apprehensive
(B) embittered
(C) pragmatic
(D) apologetic
(E) morose

32. In the third paragraph (lines 24-41), the author
discusses Hippocrates' theory in order to
(A) argue that environment has an immense
influence on people
(B) criticize the division of human nature into
basic types
(C) assess whether science or religion had a
greater influence on early medicine
(D) confirm that laziness leads to serious
character flaws
(E) establish the long-standing belief that habits
of mind are innate

33. At the end of the fourth paragraph (lines 42-56),
the author acknowledges that people
(A) are motivated by competition
(B) can control their behavior
(C) should learn to question others
(D) need to spend some time alone
(E) tend to act out in anger

34. Why does the author mention Bill Gates and
Valentino in lines 50-53 ("sharing a bucket ...
Valentino") ?
(A) To state that memory is subject to change
(B) To imagine what could be accomplished if
one had multiple lives
(C) To provide examples of casual and formal
lifestyles
(D) To assert that people do not have a definitive
path in life
(E) To compare the unique talents of two very
different people

35. Which statement best describes the significance of
the Beckett quotation in lines 62-65 ("There is ...
to express") ?
(A) Writing is inherently a paradoxical endeavor.
(B) The best writers are their own harshest
critics.
(C) One is born with the ability to write
creatively; the skill cannot be taught.
(D) Writing is an ambition that few attempt to
realize.
(E) There is a time and a place to speak in
earnest.

36. The author assumes a self-important tone in
lines 65-70 ("As a solid ... big answer") to
(A) express indignation, so as to distance himself
from the lazy
(B) convey surprise, so as to emphasize the
unexpected nature of his self-revelation
(C) affect seriousness, so as to conceal his
indifference to the topic
(D) chastise his audience, so as to reinforce his
authority
(E) mock himself, so as to build credibility with
his audience

37. In the fifth paragraph, the author suggests that
"the truest answer" (line 75)
(A) requires a level of philosophical awareness
that defies human expression
(B) is not worth providing if it cannot be revised
from time to time
(C) would take too long to articulate within a
single lifetime
(D) could not possibly describe the communal
experience of all people
(E) necessitates the type of intellectual discipline
and rigor that few people possess

38. Based on the author's views in the first paragraph,
the "truly lazy" (line 8) would most likely respond
to an actual examination question by
(A) convincing others to leave the examination
room with them
(B) negotiating so that they could answer the
question another day
(C) refusing to enter the examination room at all
(D) having someone else answer the question for
them
(E) waiting to the last minute before answering
the question

39. Which statement best describes a major turning
point in the passage?
(A) In Paragraph 3 (lines 24-41), the author shifts
from the negative to the positive aspects of
laziness.
(B) In Paragraph 4 (lines 42-56), the author
begins addressing the psychological
implications of laziness.
(C) In Paragraph 4 (lines 42-56), the author starts
speaking about laziness in the abstract.
(D) In Paragraph 5 (lines 57-81), the author's
objective analysis of laziness gives way to
subjective experience.
(E) In Paragraph 5 (lines 57-81), the author's
criticism of laziness turns to justification.

Correct Answers:
26. B  27. C  28. D 29. B 30. A 31. C 32. E 33. B 34. D 35. A 36. E 37. A 38. C 39. D 

My Answers:
26. B  27. C  28. D 29. B 30. A 31. E 32. E 33. B 34. D 35. A 36. E 37. D 38. C 39. B 