There is one essential point wherein a political
liar differs from others of the faculty; that he ought to
have but a short memory, which is necessary
according to the various occasions he meets with
every hour, of differing from himself and swearing to
both sides of a contradiction, as he finds the persons
disposed, with whom he has to deal. In describing the
virtues and vices of mankind, it is convenient, upon
every article, to have some eminent person in our eye,
from whom we copy our description. I have strictly
observed this rule; and my imagination this minute
represents before me a certain great man famous for
this talent, to the constant practice of which he owes
his twenty years’ reputation of the most skilful head
in England, for the management of nice affairs. The
superiority of his genius consists in nothing else but
an inexhaustible fund of political lies, which he
plentifully distributes every minute he speaks, and by
an unparalleled generosity forgets, and consequently
contradicts the next half hour. He never yet
considered whether any proposition were true or false,
but whether it were convenient for the present minute
or company to affirm or deny it; so that if you think
fit to refine upon him by interpreting everything he
says, as we do dreams, by the contrary, you are still
to seek, and will find yourself equally deceived
whether you believe or no: the only remedy is to
suppose that you have heard some inarticulate sounds,
without any meaning at all. And besides, that will take
off the horror you might be apt to conceive at the
oaths wherewith he perpetually tags both ends of
every proposition: though at the same time I think he
cannot with any justice be taxed with perjury, when
he invokes God and Christ, because he has often
fairly given public notice to the world, that he
believes in neither.
Some people may think that such an
accomplishment as this, can be of no great use to the
owner or his party, after it has been often practised,
and is become notorious; but they are widely
mistaken: Few lies carry the inventor’s mark, and the
most prostitute enemy to truth may spread a thousand
without being known for the author. Besides, as the
vilest writer has his readers, so the greatest liar has
his believers; and it often happens, that if a lie be
believed only for an hour, it has done its work, and
there is no farther occasion for it. Falsehood flies, and
truth comes limping after it; so that when men come
to be undeceived, it is too late, the jest is over, and the
tale has had its effect: like a man who has thought of a
good repartee when the discourse is changed or the
company parted: or, like a physician who has found
out an infallible medicine, after the patient is dead.
Considering that natural disposition in many men
to lie, and in multitudes to believe, I have been
perplexed what to do with that maxim so frequent in
everybody’s mouth, that “Truth will at last prevail.”
Here has this island* of ours, for the greatest part of
twenty years, lain under the influence of such
counsels and persons, whose principle and interest it
was to corrupt our manners, blind our understanding,
drain our wealth, and in time destroy our constitution
both in Church and State; and we at last were brought
to the very brink of ruin; yet, by the means of
perpetual misrepresentations, have never been able to
distinguish between our enemies and friends.
*England

Questions:
40. The author’s primary purpose in the passage is to
(A) show how behavior that is widely condemned
as vicious is a source of national prosperity
(B) express resignation about the resistance of
successful liars to attempts to reform them
(C) trivialize the friendships of a self-serving
political elite
(D) illustrate the process by which individuals
become interested in politics
(E) disparage a vice and explain how it has
flourished

41. The words “ought” and “necessary” (lines 2-3)
convey the author’s sense of
(A) shame
(B) obligation
(C) defiant zeal
(D) cynical pragmatism
(E) sympathetic identification

42. The author’s attitude in describing “a certain great
man” (line 12) is best characterized as
(A) wistfully admiring
(B) openly fascinated
(C) mockingly contemptuous
(D) ironic yet compassionate
(E) defensive and uncertain

43. The "talent" mentioned in line 13 refers most
nearly toa
(A) facility with financial matters
(B) flexibility of conviction
(C) pronounced physical agility
(D) vicious and cruel propensity
(E) mediocre performance

44. In line 15, the phrase "nice affairs" refers to
(A) sumptuous entertainments
(B) familial relationships
(C) conscientious preparations
(D) matters requiring tactful handling
(E) kind and friendly interchanges

45. In context, the phrase "unparalleled generosity"
(line 19) serves as
(A) decisive refutation of an argument
(B) categorical support for a gesture
(C) deceptively unpretentious rhetoric
(D) hyperbolic sarcasm
(E) effusive praise

46. In lines 23-27, the statement "so that... or no"
emphasizes which of the following qualities of
liars?
(A) Their prepossessing appearance
(B) Their inscrutability
(C) Their reasonableness
(D) Their assertiveness
(E) Their eloquence

47. The author suggests that people hear "inarticulate
sounds" (line 28) when they listen to the speaker
because the words are so
(A) self-glorifying
(B) self-contradictory
(C) frightening
(D) conventional
(E) melodious

48. The primary function of the second paragraph
(lines 37-53) is to
(A) contradict the position taken in the first
paragraph
(B) reveal the error in a particular belief
(C) develop the character of the "great man"
introduced in the first paragraph
(D) examine the purpose of a cherished ideal
(E) parody the way in which liars exploit
rhetoric for their own purposes

49. What is the primary function of the statement
"Falsehood flies, and truth comes limping after it"
(lines 47-48) ?
(A) It uses an ad hominem argument to convey
the author's contempt for liars.
(B) It personifies falsehood to evoke sympathy
for those accused of lying.
(C) It creates a visual contrast to emphasize the
power of lies.
(D) It employs alliteration to suggest that truth
and falsehood are closely related.
(E) It uses hyperbole to undermine its literal
meaning.

50. Lines 50-53 ("like a man . . . is dead") exemplify
(A) a contrast between genuine and hypocritical
virtue
(B) the maliciousness of liars.
(C) the perplexing unreasonableness of lying
(D) the inconvenience of truth in worldly matters
(E) the inefficacy of truth in limiting lies' effects

51. The primary function of the sentence in
lines 54-57 ("Considering . . . prevail') is to
(A) question the validity of a popular saying
(B) refute assertions made in the previous
paragraph
(C) minimize the severity of the danger described
(D) offer qualified approval for a particular
phenomenon
(E) give an example of a political circumlocution

52. The author's attitude toward the state of
"this island of ours" (line 58) is one of
(A) dismay
(B) ambivalence
(C) neutrality
(D) forgiving magnanimity
(E) deepening loyalty

53. The parallel phrasing in lines 60-63
("whose . . . State") helps to create a tone of
(A) guarded skepticism
(B) mounting outrage
(C) subtle hopefulness
(D) reluctant patriotism
(E) bleak melancholy

54. Which of the following comes closest to the
meaning of the concluding observation in
lines 58-66 ("Here . . . friends'') ?
(A) Certain politicians have injured the nation by
diverting its resources to their own pockets.
(B) Powerful liars have manipulated language to
escape punishment for their transgressions.
(C) External threats have multiplied since a
particular party assumed control of the
government.
(D) The public is so envious of successful liars
that it has come to hold honest people in
contempt.
(E) The devious speech of liars has so confused
the public that no one knows whom to trust.

55. The change in tone from the first to the
third paragraph serves which of the following
functions?
(A) It heightens the seriousness of the author's
themes and views.
(B) It balances antithetical viewpoints.
(C) It allows for an ironic reassessment of the
man portrayed in the first paragraph.
(D) It invites the reader to be skeptical of the
author's judgment.
(E) It offers a sense of reasonable compromise.

Correct Answers:
40. E 41. D 42. C 43. B 44. D 45. D 46. B 47. B 48. B 49. C 50. E 51. A 52. A 53. B 54. E 55. A

My Answers:
40. E 41. D 42. C 43. B 44. D 45. D 46. A 47. B 48. B 49. C 50. E 51. A 52. A 53. B 54. E 55. A