Questions 44-55. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The following is excerpted from a recent nonfiction
book.)

Pragmatism is an account of the way people
think--the way they come up with ideas, form beliefs,
and reach decisions. What makes us decide to do one
thing when we might do another thing instead? The
(5) question seems unanswerable, since life presents us
with many types of choices, and no single explanation
can be expected to cover every case. Deciding
whether to order the lobster or the steak is not the
same sort of thing as deciding whether the defendant
Jo is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. In the first case
(assuming price is not an object) we consult our taste;
in the second we consult our judgment, and try to
keep our taste out of it. But knowing more or less
what category a particular decision belongs to--
(15) knowing whether it is a matter of personal preference
or a matter of impersonal judgment--doesn't make
that decision any easier to make. "Order what you feel
like eating," says your impatient dinner companion.
But the problem is that you don't know what you feel
(20) like eating. What you feel like eating is precisely what
you are trying to figure out.
"Order what you feel like eating" is just a piece of
advice about the criteria you should be using to guide
your deliberations. It is not a solution to your menu
(25) problem--just as "Do the right thing" and "Tell the
truth" are only suggestions about criteria, not answers
to actual dilemmas. The actual dilemma is what, in
the particular case staring you in the face, the right
thing to do or the honest thing to say really is. And
(30) making those kinds of decisions--about what is right
or what is truthful--is like deciding what to order
in a restaurant, in the sense that getting a handle on
tastiness is no harder or easier (even though it is
generally less important) than getting a handle on
(35) justice or truth.
People reach decisions, most of the time, by
thinking. This is a pretty banal statement, but the
process it names is inscrutable. An acquaintance gives
you a piece of information in strict confidence; later
(40) on, aclose friend, lacking that information, is about to
make a bad mistake. Do you betray the confidence?
"Do the right thing"--but what is the right thing?
Keeping your word, or helping someone you care
about avoid injury or embarrassment? Even in this
(45) two-sentence hypothetical case, the choice between
principles is complicated--as it always is in life--by
circumstances. If it had been the close friend who
gave you the information and the acquaintance who
was about to make the mistake, you would almost
(50) certainly think about your choice differently--as you
would if you thought that the acquaintance was a
nasty person, or that the friend was a lucky person,
or that the statute of limitations on the secret had
probably run out, or that you had acquired a terrible
(55) habit of betraying confidences and really ought to
break it. In the end, you will do what you believe
is "right," but "rightness" will be, in effect, the
compliment you give to the outcome of your
deliberations. Though it is always in view while you
(60) are thinking, "what is right" is something that appears
in its complete form at the end, not the beginning, of
your deliberation.
When we think, in other words, we do not simply
consult principles, or reasons, or sentiments, or
(65) tastes; for prior to thinking, all those things are
indeterminate. Thinking is what makes them real.
Deciding to order the lobster helps us determine
that we have a taste for lobster; deciding that the
defendant is guilty helps us establish the standard of
(70) justice that applies in this case; choosing to keep a
confidence helps make honesty a principle and
choosing to betray it helps to confirm the value we
put on friendship.
Does this mean that our choices are arbitrary or
(75) self-serving--that standards and principles are just
whatever it is in our interest to say they are, pretexts
for satisfying selfish ends or gratifying hidden
impulses? There is no way to answer this question,
except to say that it rarely fee/s as though this is the
(80) case. We usually don't end up deciding to do what
seems pleasant or convenient at the moment;
experience teaches us that this is rarely a wise basis
for making a choice. ("If merely 'feeling good' could
decide, drunkenness would be the supremely valid
(85) human experience," as James* once put it.) When we
are happy with a decision, it doesn't feel arbitrary; it
feels like the decision we had to reach. And this is
because its inevitability is a function of its "fit" with
the whole inchoate set of assumptions of our self-
(90) understanding and of the social world we inhabit, the
assumptions that give the moral weight--much
greater moral weight than logic or taste could ever
give--to every judgment we make. This is why, so
often, we know we--re right before we know why
(95) we're right. First we decide, then we deduce.
*William James (1842-1910), American philosopher and psychologist,
was a leader of the philosophical movement of Pragmatism.

44. By saying "Pragmatism is an account of the way
people think" (lines 1-2), the author implicitly
acknowledges that
(A) the thinking process is probably impossible to
comprehend intellectually
(B) there may be other theories that explain the
way we think
(C) he is skeptical about philosophical
explanations in general
(D) pragmatism has come to dominate current
philosophical discourse
(E) pragmatism can reconcile differences among
belief systems

45. In the first paragraph (lines 1-21), the author is
mainly concerned with
(A) distinguishing between two frames of
reference
(B) defining what we mean by "thinking"
(C) establishing his own credentials as a thinker
(D) presenting a personal account of pragmatism
(E) describing two sharply different points
of view

46. With regard to decision making, the author views
admonitions like "Order what you feel like
eating" (lines 17-18) and "Do the right thing"
(line 25) as
(A) rhetorically reassuring
(B) promoting decisiveness
(C) morally objectionable
(D) lacking logical support
(E) ultimately unhelpful

47. In the third paragraph (lines 36-62), the author is
principally occupied with
(A) defining obscure terms
(B) exemplifying a claim
(C) refuting a hypothesis
(D) creating a sustained metaphor
(E) recounting personal anecdotes

48. The questions the author poses in lines 41-44 are
used to
(A) reveal his own decision-making process
(B) suggest that the difficulty of finding a
solution to a problem is often illusory
(C) illustrate the difficulty of making a decision
based on one's values
(D) oblige the reader to abandon moral certainties
(E) indicate the author's uncertainty about
solving dilemmas through a pragmatic
approach

49. The series of parallel clauses in lines 51-56
("if you thought . . . break it") is used to
(A) outline a solution
(B) dismiss an objection
(C) question a theory
(D) resolve a dilemma
(E) reinforce an idea

50. By calling rightness "the compliment you give"
(lines 57-58), the author suggests that rightness is
(A) derived from philosophical theory
(B) almost impossible to determine
(C) rarely in line with conventional morality
(D) contingent on personal choices
(E) largely a matter of chance

51. In the third paragraph (lines 36-62), the author
emphasizes which of the following aspects of
thinking?
(A) Its amorality
(B) Its opaqueness
(C) Its complexity
(D) Its irrationality
(E) Its consistency

52. In the first part of the final paragraph, the author
is mainly concerned with
(A) reiterating his original thesis
(B) offering a series of counterexamples
(C) introducing new supporting evidence
(D) answering a possible objection
(E) demonstrating the value of deductive
reasoning

53. For the author, our decision making is most
influenced by
(A) philosophical principles
(B) moral imperatives
(C) personal taste
(D) suggestions about criteria
(E) particular circumstances

54. According to the author, we know that a decision
we have made is right largely through our
(A) individual intuition
(B) moral certitude
(C) philosophical training
(D) use of logic
(E) educated taste

55. Which of the following is LEAST applicable to
describe the author's presentation of ideas in the
passage?
(A) Judicious
(B) Questioning
(C) Dogmatic
(D) Intellectual
(E) Rational

Correct Ansers: 
44.B 45.A 46.E 47.B 48.C 49.E 50.D 51.C 52.D 53.E 54.A 55.C

My Answers:
44.A 45.A 46.D 47.A 48.C 49.A 50.D 51.C 52.D 53.E 54.B 55.A