Literary activities not only permeated daily life:
they did so in ways that were at once participatory
and collaborative.! From early ages, middle-class
boys and girls were expected to produce written work.
(5) In addition to school essays, there were poems written
to order for family celebrations as well as word
games, like writing nonsense verses in alternate
lines, all of which required verbal facility. These
circumstances were of singular importance for
(10) women.
By the late nineteenth century, diary and letter
writing had become predominantly female arts. If
women did not monopolize them, they were thought
to have special talents or responsibilities for their
(15) performance. Once a common spiritual exercise for
both sexes, diary keeping had evolved into something
of a calling for female adolescents of the comfortable
classes. Often presented by parents as gifts to girls
in their early teens, diaries were sanctioned as a
(20) technique for promoting discipline and character,
a practice that might aid in the transition from
sometimes ornery adolescence to more pliant
womanhood. In their pages, girls recorded, sometimes
painfully, their struggles to "be good," to settle
(25) gnawing religious doubts, to subdue their pride or
resentment at parental authority. Whatever the intent
of adults, by fostering exploration of inner lives,
diaries often promoted self-reflection of an
individualistic sort in ways that allowed for a more
(30) assertive female subjectivity. In their (presumably)
secret pages, girls could express anger and try out a
variety of identities, some of them at least mildly
subversive. Perhaps critics were right to consider
diaries sufficiently dangerous to warn against them,
(35) as some did in the 1870s.?
Diaries assumed their greatest importance during
adolescence, but women of all ages were often
prodigious letter writers. As those charged with the
emotional well-being of extended as well as nuclear
(40) families, women kept in touch with absent members
and distant relatives. The pattern began in youth: boys
might be expected to write letters, but their lapses
were more readily tolerated than those of their sisters.
In a mobile society that detached people from their
(45) points of origin, women's letters often constituted the
primary means of communication between family
members. As the principal letter writers, women not
only demonstrated their vaunted verbal facility but
gained authority in negotiating family matters.>
(50) Diary keeping and letter writing originated in
gendered obligations. But they were often so much
more. In addition to any personal satisfaction they
brought, these genres enhanced powers of observation
and self-reflection. Self-conscious about their letters,
(55) which they knew would be read aloud or passed
around among family members, young women
labored over their literary productions. Observant
correspondents like Alice Hamilton became vivid
storytellers who set their scenes with care, created
(60) characters out of themselves and the people they met,
and adjusted their narratives to fit their intended
audience.* Earlier in the century, in just this manner,
letter writing proved to be an important training
ground for Harriet Beecher Stowe, who incorporated
(65) techniques she had perfected in her correspondence
into her domestic fiction.5 In creating themselves in
and through their diaries and letters (that is, both for
themselves and for others), women often drew on
models available to them from literature. In this way
(70) reading and writing converged.
----------------------------------------------------------
1 For an admirably thorough and wide-ranging study
of literary practices in everyday life that draws on a
vast array of archival sources for an earlier period, see
Ronald J. Zboray and Mary Saracino Zboray, Everyday
Ideas: Socioliterary Experience among Antebellum
New Englanders (Knoxville: University of Tennessee
Press, 2006).
2 On diaries, see Jane H. Hunter, "Inscribing the Self in
the Heart of the Family: Diaries and Girlhood in
Late-Victorian America," American Quarterly 44
(March 1992): 51-81. Diaries are usually considered
Protestant undertakings, but Melissa R. Klapper has
uncovered numerous diaries kept by middle-class Jewish
girls during the period; Jewish Girls Coming of Age in
America, 1860-1920 (New York: New York University
Press, 2005). For a later period, see Joan Jacobs
Brumberg, "The 'Me' of Me: Voices of Jewish Girls in
Adolescent Diaries of the 1920s and 1950s," in Talking
Back: Images of Jewish Women in American Popular
Culture, ed. Joyce Antler (Hanover, N.H.: Brandeis
University Press, 1998), 53-67.
3 In a study that highlights women's letter writing in
maintaining family ties, Marilyn Ferris Motz observes
that letters were widely viewed as "a characteristically
feminine occupation." Not only did magazines promote
the view that "a good letter . . . is eminently woman's
forte and function," but men's reluctance to write them
seems to have been accepted by the women in her
sample; True Sisterhood: Michigan Women and Their
Kin, 1820-1920 (Albany: State University of New York
Press, 1983), 5-6, 8-9, 52-81, quotations on 53, 62. For a
stimulating analysis of women's emotional work in the
late twentieth century, see Micaela di Leonardo, "The
Female World of Cards and Holidays: Women, Family,
and the Work of Kinship," Signs 12 (Spring 1987):
440-53.
4 See Barbara Sicherman, Alice Hamilton: A Life in Letters
(Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1984), esp.
211-17.
5 Joan D. Hedrick, in "Parlor Literature: Harriet Beecher
Stowe and the Question of 'Great Women Artists,'"
Signs 17 (Winter 1992): 275-303, elaborates on a
tradition of domestically based literary production she
calls "parlor literature." Her focus is on the antebellum
period, but the tradition continued into the Gilded Age,
even as the conditions of authorship and publishing were
becoming more professionalized.

16. The author uses the "not only" construction in
line | to
(A) minimize the importance of everyday literary
activities
(B) convey a heightened degree of involvement
in shared literary activities during a period
(C) recommend ways of giving literary activities
a broader cultural significance
(D) suggest that literary activities were best
reserved for group settings
(E) argue that literary activities should reflect
common values rather than personal ones

17. Which statement best describes the main idea of
the first paragraph (lines 1-10) ?
(A) Literary demands on children increased as
they grew older.
(B) Children's educational opportunities differed
based on social class.
(C) Writing tasks featured prominently in
children's lives.
(D) Creative writing was performed at home
rather than at school.
(E) Women rather than men studied literature
throughout their lives.

18. Lines 12-15 ("If women . . . performance") state
that women were
(A) viewed as oddities if they did not write more
entertaining letters than men did
(B) judged critically if they did not write as much
correspondence as they received
(C) entrusted with more household obligations if
they excelled in practical forms of writing
(D) regarded as responsible for the most
important correspondence despite being less
likely to write
(E) considered to have a particular facility for
writing letters and diary entries

19. In lines 26-35 ("Whatever . . . 1870s"), the author
suggests that
(A) diaries helped girls experiment privately with
different personas
(B) girls were punished for voicing rebellious
thoughts in their diaries
(C) girls exchanged diaries to communicate with
each other confidentially
(D) girls became socially ambitious as a result of
diary keeping
(E) diary keeping declined once critics spoke out
against the practice

20. What is the effect of putting the word
"presumably" (line 30) in parentheses?
(A) To indicate that a possibility is not worth
considering
(B) To acknowledge the strength of an opposing
viewpoint
(C) To raise doubts about whether an assumption
is warranted
(D) To underscore a compelling rationale for an
argument
(E) To draw attention to additional evidence

21. Which of the following best describes the
rhetorical function of the last sentence of the
second paragraph ("Perhaps . . . 1870s") ?
(A) It rejects the authority of "critics" (line 33)
while noting that they were relatively
progressive compared to their
contemporaries.
(B) It endorses the views of "critics" (line 33)
while conceding that contemporary readers
may no longer find such views tenable.
(C) It ironically acknowledges the perceptiveness
of "critics" (line 33) while implicitly
criticizing their efforts to regulate female
conduct.
(D) It disputes the assumption that contemporary
critics possess a more accurate
understanding of the effects of diary
keeping than nineteenth-century "critics"
(line 33).
(E) It suggests that nineteenth-century "critics"
(line 33) were more liberal in their views of
girls' education than is often assumed.

22. Note 2 primarily promotes the exploration of
which topic?
(A) The reasons why women privileged diary
keeping over letter writing
(B) The diary entry's influence on a specific
literary genre
(C) The influence of diary keeping on successive
generations
(D) The prevalence of diary keeping in particular
groups
(E) Religious arguments raised by critics of diary
keeping

23. In line 41, the "pattern" refers to the
(A) disapproval voiced toward individuals who
failed to correspond regularly
(B) responsibility women had for maintaining
family connections
(C) expectation for men to travel and for women
to stay at home
(D) tendency for family members to move
increasingly farther apart
(E) admiration that men felt for women's skillful
letter writing

24. The third paragraph (lines 36-49) asserts that
letter writing was significant because it
(A) provided women with a means of exercising
power as individuals
(B) caused women to feel resentment for the roles
they were forced to assume
(C) kept women from exploring other challenges
outside the home
(D) presented women with the opportunity to
become professional writers
(E) gave women a vehicle for building close
personal relationships

25. In note 3, the author states that Motz's work
(A) studies a broad segment of the population in
the nineteenth-century United States
(B) presents historical evidence that women were
more closely identified with letter writing
than were men
(C) analyzes the style and structure of women's
letters that were written on a variety of
domestic topics
(D) provides an intellectual basis for
di Leonardo's review of women's.
writing in the home
(E) shows how magazines influenced the writing
techniques of nineteenth-century women

26. In note 3, the bibliographical information
provided for di Leonardo's work indicates
that it is
(A) a lecture transcript
(B) a full-length book
(C) a volume in a series
(D) an essay in an anthology
(E) an article in a periodical

27. The author uses the word "obligations" in line 51
to expand on the meaning of
(A) "charged" (line 38)
(B) "tolerated" (line 43)
(C) "detached (line 44)
(D) "constituted" (line 45)
(E) "demonstrated" (line 48)

28. In the last paragraph (lines 50-70), the author
mentions Alice Hamilton and Harriet Beecher
Stowe because they
(A) made it popular to read letters aloud in
dramatic performances at home
(B) illustrate how the art of letter writing nurtured
literary achievement
(C) wrote letters that proved to have a major
impact on questions of national importance
(D) wrote letters that women studied to perfect
their own writing style
(E) continue to influence the practice of letter
writing today

29. In lines 66-70 ("In creating . . . converged"), the
author describes the relationship between
(A) diaries intended for self-contemplation and
letters used for broader communication
(B) female writers who sought attention and the
audiences they attempted to please
(C) the artistic freedom that female writers
enjoyed and the social constraints they had
to endure
(D) literature that inspired women and the diaries
and letters women produced
(E) writing in seclusion and discussing literature
in small circles with other women

30. Which statement best sums up the central
argument of the passage?
(A) Genres defined as feminine gave women the
chance to assert their influence and express
themselves.
(B) Women used seemingly conservative genres
to engage in social reform.
(C) Diary and letter writing provided women
with a foothold in the publishing world.
(D) Women modified traditional genres in the
nineteenth century to express a unique point
of view.
(E) Women's correspondence provides insightful
commentaries on nineteenth-century culture
at large.

31. The author's overall tone is best described as
(A) arch and witty
(B) whimsical and irreverent
(C) assured and informative
(D) strident and polemical
(E) emotional and apologetic

Correct Answers:
16.B 17.C 18.E 19.A 20.C 21.C 22.D 23.B 24.A 25.B 26.E 27.A 28.B 29.D 30.A 31.C

My Answers:
16.B 17.C 18.E 19.A 20.C 21.A 22.D 23.B 24.E 25.B 26.E 27.A 28.B 29.D 30.A 31.C