Questions 1-15. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The following essay by a British writer was first
published in 1900.)

We may talk about our troubles to those persons
who can give us direct help, but even in this case we
ought as much as possible to come to a provisional
conclusion before consultation; to be perfectly clear to
(5) ourselves within our own limits. Some people have a
foolish trick of applying for aid before they have done
anything whatever to aid themselves, and in fact try to
talk themselves into perspicuity. The only way in
which they can think is by talking, and their speech
(10) consequently is not the expression of opinion already
and carefully formed, but the manufacture of it.
We may also tell our troubles to those who are
suffering if we can lessen their own. It may be a very
great relief to them to know that others have passed
(15) through trials equal to theirs and have survived. There
are obscure, nervous diseases, hypochondriac fancies,
almost uncontrollable impulses, which terrify by their
apparent singularity. If we could believe that they are
common, the worst of the fear would vanish.
(20) But, as a rule, we should be very careful for our
own sake not to speak much about what distresses us.
Expression is apt to carry with it exaggeration, and
this exaggerated form becomes henceforth that under
which we represent our miseries to ourselves, so that
(25) they are thereby increased. By reserve, on the other
hand, they are diminished, for we attach less
importance to that which it was not worth while to
mention. Secrecy, in fact, may be our salvation.
It is injurious to be always treated as if something
(30) were the matter with us. It is health-giving to be dealt
with as if we were healthy, and the man who imagines
his wits are failing becomes stronger and sounder by
being entrusted with a difficult problem than by all
the assurances of a doctor.
(35) They are poor creatures who are always craving for
pity. If we are sick, let us prefer conversation upon
any subject rather than upon ourselves. Let it turn on
matters that lie outside the dark chamber, upon the
last new discovery, or the last new idea. So shall
(40) we seem still to be linked to the living world. By
perpetually asking for sympathy an end is put to real
friendship. The friend is afraid to intrude anything
which has no direct reference to the patient's
condition lest it should be thought irrelevant. No love
(45) even can long endure without complaint, silent it may
be, against an invalid who is entirely self-centered;
and what an agony it is to know that we are tended
simply as a duty by those who are nearest to us,
and that they will really be relieved when we have
(50) departed! From this torture we may be saved if we
early apprentice ourselves to the art of self-($1) "
suppression and sternly apply the gag to eloquence
upon our own woes. Nobody who really cares for us
will mind waiting on us even to the long-delayed last
(55) hour if we endure in fortitude.
There is no harm in confronting our disorders
or misfortunes. On the contrary, the attempt is
wholesome. Much of what we dread is really due to
indistinctness of outline. If we have the courage to say
(60) to ourselves, What is this thing, then? let the worst
come to the worst, and what then? we shall frequently
find that after all it is not so terrible. What we have to
do is to subdue tremulous, nervous, insane fright.
Fright is often prior to an object; that is to say, the
(65) fright comes first and something is invented or
discovered to account for it. There are certain states
of body and mind which are productive of objectless
fright, and the most ridiculous thing in the world is
able to provoke it to activity. It is perhaps not too
(70) much to say that any calamity the moment it is
apprehended by the reason alone loses nearly all its
power to disturb and unfix us. The conclusions which
are so alarming are not those of the reason, but, to use
Spinoza's words, of the "affects."

1. The author most likely assumes which of the
following about his audience?
(A) It has had little experience of emotional pain.
(B) It is interested in learning how to deal with
personal problems.
(C) Itis overly concerned with keeping up
appearances.
(D) Its views are vehemently opposed to his own.
(E) It is indifferent to the effect of its actions on
others.

2. The author implies that the speech of "Some
people" (line 5) is likely to be
(A) polite and refined
(B) imaginative and original
(C) ill-considered and impetuous
(D) frivolous and tiresome
(E) awkward and inarticulate

3. In the first paragraph, the author draws a
distinction between
(A) reserve and deceit
(B) thinking and speaking
(C) recollecting and suppressing
(D) reason and emotion
(E) knowledge and opinion

4. In the second paragraph, the author suggests that
one way to lessen the suffering of others is to get
them to believe that their troubles are
(A) largely self-created
(B) likely to be short-lived
(C) not unique to them
(D) not without cause
(E) not likely to return

5. Which of the following are contrasted in the
third paragraph?
(A) Speech and distress
(B) Expression and reserve
(C) Exaggeration and unhappiness
(D) Expression and exaggeration
(E) Secrecy and salvation

6. In the third paragraph, the author is mainly
concerned with
(A) defending the verbosity of people who are
experiencing personal difficulties
(B) chastising people who exaggerate their
troubles to gain sympathy from others
(C) revealing the selflessness of those who
conceal their own suffering from others
(D) affirming the value of patience by explaining
the psychological benefits of listening to
others
(E) urging verbal restraint by highlighting the
impact of speech on the speaker's sense of
reality

7. The author introduces the figure of the "man
who imagines his wits are failing" (lines 31-32)
primarily in order to
(A) emphasize the importance of maintaining
people's confidence in their own abilities
(B) appeal for greater sensitivity to be shown to
people with mental afflictions
(C) lament the extent to which people's self-
esteem depends on others' opinion of them
(D) illustrate the necessity of self-reliance in
coping with mental affliction
(E) point to a decline in the cultural authority of
medical professionals

8. The use of the passive voice in the sentence
"By ... friendship" (lines 40-42) has which of the
following effects?
(A) It shifts the purpose of the paragraph.
(B) It calls into question the author's sincerity.
(C) It throws a different light on the central
thesis.
(D) It makes a generalization seem less personal.
(E) It emphasizes the author's authority on the
subject.

9. In line 50, "this torture" refers to the
(A) inability to care properly for a loved one
(B) failure to recognize another person's pain
(C) inability to express our true feelings
(D) sense that we have been a burden to others
(E) belief that we create our own troubles

10. In context, "eloquence" (line 52) most closely
reiterates the meaning of which of the following
words used earlier in the passage?
(A) "fancies" (line 16)
(B) "Expression" (line 22)
(C) "Secrecy" (line 28)
(D) "assurances" (line 34)
(E) "complaint" (line 45)

11. In line 60, italicization is used to
(A) emphasize a difference between appearance
and reality
(B) signal an ironic point of view
(C) cite a specific source
(D) underscore the author's own sincerity
(E) suggest a conventional way to understand a
situation

12. In context, the series of adjectives before "fright"
(line 63) is meant to
(A) convey the author's surprise on experiencing
an emotion
(B) insinuate the foolishness of betraying an
emotion
(C) evoke the mounting intensity of an emotion
(D) question the wisdom of concealing emotion
(E) appeal to the audience's sense of compassion

13. In the context of the passage as a whole, the final
paragraph serves to
(A) restate an earlier point by way of an analogy
between reason and medicine
(B) qualify the earlier argument by considering
the value of directly engaging one's troubles
(C) persuade the audience by demonstrating
facility with contemporary psychological
theory
(D) outline some of the difficulties that the
author's discussion leaves unresolved
(E) note a contradiction in the author's advice
about exercising discretion

14. The author uses which of the following to develop
his ideas in the passage?
(A) Anecdotes drawn from his own experience
(B) An extended metaphor for describing the
nature of suffering
(C) A series of assertions followed by
counterexamples
(D) Logical argument in support of several
different theses
(E) A series of generalizations supported by
reasoning and hypothetical instances

15. In the passage as a whole, the author recommends
that "we" adopt which of the following personal
characteristics?
(A) Sincerity and forthrightness
(B) Generosity and charitableness
(C) Humility and deference
(D) Circumspection and self-reliance
(E) Independence and aloofness

Correct Answers:
1.B 2.C 3.B 4.C 5.B 6.E 7.A 8.D 9.D 10.B 11.A 12.C 13.B 14.E 15.D

My Answers:
1.B 2.C 3.B 4.C 5.D 6.E 7.A 8.C 9.D 10.B 11.E 12.C 13.B 14.E 15.D
