Questions 32-43. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The following passage is from a book published in
the 1980s.)

In the world of the southern black community I
grew up in, "back talk" and "talking back" meant
speaking as an equal to an authority figure. It meant
daring to disagree and sometimes it just meant having
(5) an opinion. In the "old school," children were meant
to be seen and not heard. My great-grandparents,
grandparents, and parents were all from the old
school. To make yourself heard if you were a child
was to invite punishment, the back-hand lick, the slap
(10) across the face that would catch you unaware, or the
feel of switches stinging your arms and legs.
To speak then when one was not spoken to was a
courageous act--an act of risk and daring. And yet it
was hard not to speak in warm rooms where heated
(15) discussions began at the crack of dawn, women's
voices filling the air, giving orders, making threats,
fussing. Black men may have excelled in the art of
poetic preaching in the male-dominated church, but in
the church of the home, where the everyday rules of
(20) how to live and how to act were established, it was
black women who preached. There, black women
spoke in a language so rich, so poetic, that it felt to
me like being shut off from life, smothered to death if
one were not allowed to participate.
(25) It was in that world of woman talk (the men were
often silent, often absent) that was born in me the
craving to speak, to have a voice, and not just any
voice but one that could be identified as belonging to
me. To make my voice, I had to speak, to hear myself
(30) talk--and talk I did--darting in and out of grown
folks' conversations and dialogues, answering
questions that were not directed at me, endlessly
asking questions, making speeches. Needless to say,
the punishments for these acts of speech seemed
(35) endless. They were intended to silence me--the child
--and more particularly the girl child. Had I been a
boy, they might have encouraged me to speak
believing that I might someday be called to preach.
There was no "calling" for talking girls, no
(40) legitimized rewarded speech. The punishments
I received for "talking back" were intended to
suppress all possibility that I would create my own
speech. That speech was to be suppressed so that the
"right speech of womanhood" would emerge.
(45) Within feminist circles, silence is often seen as the
sexist "right speech of womanhood" --the sign of
woman's submission to patriarchal authority. This
emphasis on woman's silence may be an accurate
remembering of what has taken place in the
(50) households of women from WASP* backgrounds in
the United States, but in black communities (and
diverse ethnic communities), women have not been
silent. Their voices can be heard. Certainly for black
women, our struggle has not been to emerge from
(55) silence into speech but to change the nature and
direction of our speech, to make a speech that
compels listeners, one that is heard.
Our speech, "the right speech of womanhood,"
was often the soliloquy, the talking into thin air, the
(60) talking to ears that do not hear you--the talk that is
simply not listened to. Unlike the black male preacher
whose speech was to be heard, who was to be listened
to, whose words were to be remembered, the voices of
black women--giving orders, making threats, fussing
(65) --could be tuned out, could become a kind of
background music, audible but not acknowledged as
significant speech. Dialogue--the sharing of speech
and recognition--took place not between mother and
child or mother and male authority figure but among
(70) black women. I can remember watching fascinated as
our mother talked with her mother, sisters, and
women friends. The intimacy and intensity of their
speech--the satisfaction they received from talking to
one another, the pleasure, the joy. It was in this world
(75) of woman speech, loud talk, angry words, women
with tongues quick and sharp, tender sweet tongues,
touching our world with their words, that I made
speech my birthright--and the right to voice, to
authorship, a privilege I would not be denied. It was
(80) in that world and because of it that I came to dream of
writing, to write.
Writing was a way to capture speech, to hold onto
it, keep it close. And so I wrote down bits and pieces
of conversations, confessing in cheap diaries that soon
(85) fell apart from too much handling, expressing the
intensity of my sorrow, the anguish of speech--for
I was always saying the wrong thing, asking the
wrong questions. I could not confine my speech to
the necessary corners and concerns of life. I hid these
(90) writings under my bed, in pillow stuffings, among
faded underwear. When my sisters found and read
them, they ridiculed and mocked me--poking fun. I
felt violated, ashamed, as if the secret parts of myself
had been exposed, brought into the open, and hung
(95) like newly clean laundry, out in the air for everyone to
see. The fear of exposure, the fear that one's deepest
emotions and innermost thoughts will be dismissed as
mere nonsense, felt by so many young girls keeping
diaries, holding and hiding speech, seems to me now
(100) one of the barriers that women have always needed
and still need to destroy so that we are no longer
pushed into secrecy or silence.
* White Anglo-Saxon Protestant, a colloquial term used to identify a
group of middle- or upper-class Americans often perceived to be
especially privileged and powerful

32.The passage is primarily about
(A) the author's views on child development
(B) the author's influence on literary tradition
(C) the purpose of the author's cultural studies
(D) the impact of the author's southern travels
(E) the development of the author's vocation

33.All of the following are true of the first paragraph
(lines 1-11) EXCEPT:
(A) It conveys one of the main ideas that the
author develops in the passage.
(B) It establishes personal experience as the
primary source of evidence.
(C) It describes the method of upbringing in the
author's childhood environment.
(D) It defines key terms that will be further
explored in the passage.
(E) It reveals the author's dismissal of the
community in which she was raised.

34.In lines 17-24 ("Black men . . . participate"), the
author juxtaposes two versions of "preaching"
primarily to
(A) dismiss the notion that men and women
inhabit separate spheres
(B) suggest that women use language for less
useful ends than men do
(C) convey her appreciation for Black women's
eloquence in the home
(D) express dismay at the extent to which
preaching in Black churches has declined
(E) underline the constraints on Black women
both in church and at home

35.The emphasis on endlessness in lines 32-35
highlights the author's dilemma by suggesting
that
(A) women's struggle to be heard requires
boundless patience
(B) children usually lack the maturity necessary
to speak decorously
(C) her intense desire to speak is met with
equally strong resistance
(D) she wishes to enter into a never-ending
philosophical debate
(E) the silence she is forced to endure is
inexpressible

36.Within the first three paragraphs (lines 1-44), the
author shifts from discussing
(A) the artistic production of other people to the
literary compositions she started writing
(B) the ease she enjoyed in the past to the
problems she would confront in the future
(C) the personal issues that dominated her
thoughts to the political issues that defined
her time
(D) the limitations imposed on her as a child to
the need to express herself as an individual
(E) the customs of her birthplace to the mores she
encountered in other communities

37.Which of the following best expresses the
author's main point in the fourth paragraph
(lines 45-57) ?
(A) The views of some feminists appear
surprisingly sexist when analyzed in detail.
(B) The experience of Black women must be
distinguished from that of White women.
(C) The theoretical arguments of scholars have
little impact on events in the real world.
(D) Black women need to reach out and speak to
members of other social groups.
(E) Black women view themselves as powerful
figures within their communities.

38.Which of the following adjectives best describe
the "right speech of womanhood" as discussed in
lines 45-51 versus how it is discussed in
lines 58-67 ?
(A) Repressed versus unheard
(B) Astute versus confused
(C) Contrived versus unadorned
(D) Candid versus tactful
(E) Analyzed versus admired

39.Which of the following best describes the effect
of the sentence fragment in lines 72-74 ?
(A) It mimics the radical loss of agency the
author experienced as a child.
(B) It conveys the absorption of the author in the
memory recounted in the previous sentence.
(C) It provides an example of "the sharing of
speech" (line 67) among Black women.
(D) It shows how dissatisfied the author was with
the speech of "the black male preacher"
(line 61).
(E) It provides an example of how the speech of
Black women became "a kind of
background music" (lines 65-66).

40.The image of "cheap diaries that soon fell apart
from too much handling" (lines 84-85) serves
primarily to
(A) evoke the fleeting nature of childhood
(B) underline the destructive effects of
self-expression
(C) convey indirectly the author's childhood
compulsion to write
(D) convey the author's desire for a wider
audience
(E) suggest the limitations of a particular genre

41.The author develops a simile in lines 93-96
primarily to
(A) demonstrate the type of household chore she
must attend to
(B) compare the complexity of her writings to the
woven fabric hanging on the clothesline
(C) convey an experience of betrayal
(D) emphasize the need to contextualize domestic
life within the world at large
(E) present an activity that the reader can easily
picture

42.In this passage, the author mainly promotes
(A) the assertion of Black women's agency
(B) the liberal education of children
(C) broader circulation of works by Black writers
(D) social programs that support rural
communities
(E) respect for the uniqueness of different
cultures

43.The author's tone in this passage can best be
characterized as
(A) militant, with imperative constructions
establishing her sense of purpose
(B) sentimental, with flashbacks evoking
childhood scenes and memories of the past
(C) terse, with short sentences delineating the
major ideas of her argument
(D) determined, with repetition conveying a sense
of insistence
(E) anxious, with passive sentences underscoring
her hesitation

Correct Answers: 
32.E 33.E 34.C 35.C 36.D 37.B 38.A 39.B 40.C 41.C 42.A 43.D

My Answers: 
32.E 33.D 34.C 35.C 36.D 37.B 38.A 39.B 40.A 41.C 42.A 43.B