2017  Section 1

Questions 1-14. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.

(The passage below is from a book by a nineteenth-
century British writer.)

  I suppose none of us will doubt that everything
possible should be done to improve the quality of the
mind of every human being.--If it is said that the
female brain is incapable of studies of an abstract
(5) nature,--that is not true: for there are many instances
of women who have been good mathematicians, and
good classical scholars. The plea is indeed nonsense
on the face of it; for the brain which will learn French
will learn Greek; the brain which enjoys arithmetic is
(10) capable of mathematics. --If it is said that women are
light-minded and superficial, the obvious answer is
that their minds should be the more carefully sobered
by grave studies, and the acquisition of exact
knowledge.--If it is said that their vocation in life
(15) does not require these kinds of knowledge, --that is
giving up the main plea for the pursuit of them by
boys;--that it improves the quality of their minds.
--If it is said that such studies unfit women for their
proper occupations, --that again is untrue. Men do not
(20) attend the less to their professional business, their
counting-house or their shop, for having their
minds enlarged and enriched, and their faculties
strengthened by sound and various knowledge; nor do
women on that account neglect the work-basket. the
(25) market, the dairy and the kitchen. If it be true that
women are made for these domestic occupations, then
of course they will be fond of them. They will be so
fond of what comes most naturally to them that no
book-study (if really not congenial to their minds)
(30) will draw them off from their homely duties. For my
part, I have no hesitation whatever in saying that the
most ignorant women I have known have been the
worst housekeepers; and that the most learned women
T have known have been among the best, -- wherever
(35) they have been early taught and trained to household
business, as every woman ought to be. A woman of
superior mind knows better than an ignorant one what
to require of her servants, how to deal with
tradespeople. and how to economise time: she is more
(40) Clear-sighted about the best ways of doing things: has
a richer mind with which to animate all about her, and
to solace her own spirit in the midst.of her labours. If
nobody doubts the difference in pleasantness of
having to do with a silly and narrow-minded woman
(45) and with one who is intelligent and enlightened, it
must be clear that the more intelligence and
enlightenment there is, the better. One of the best
housekeepers I know,--a simple-minded,
affectionate-hearted woman, whose table is always fit
(50) for a prince to sit down to, whose house is always
neat and elegant, and whose small income yields the
greatest amount of comfort, is one of the most learned
women ever heard of. When she was a little girl, she
was sitting sewing in the window-seat while her
(55) brother was receiving his first lesson in mathematics
from his tutor. She listened, and was delighted with
what she heard; and when both left the room, she
seized upon the Euclid that lay on the table, ran up to
her room, went over the lesson, and laid the volume
(60) where it was before. Every day after this, she sat
stitching away and listening, in like manner, and
going over the lesson afterwards, till one day she let
out the secret. Her brother could not answer a
question which was put to him two or three times;
(65) and, without thinking of anything else, she popped out
the answer. The tutor was surprised, and after she had
told the simple truth, she was permitted to make what
she could of Euclid. Some time after, she spoke
confidentially to a friend of the family, --a scientific
(70) professor,--asking him, with much hesitation and
many blushes, whether he thought it was wrong for
a woman to learn Latin. "Certainly not," he said;
"provided she does not neglect any duty for it.-- But
why do you want to learn Latin?" She wanted to study
(75) Newton's Principia: and the professor thought this a
very good reason. Before she was grown into a
woman, she had mastered the Principia of Newton.
And now, the great globe on which we live is to her a
book in which she reads the choice secrets of nature;
(80) and to her the last known wonders of the sky are
disclosed: and if there is a home more graced with
accomplishments, and more filled with comforts, I do
not know such an one. Will anybody say that this
woman would have been in any way better without
(85) her learning?---while we may confidently say that she
would have been much less happy.

1, Which of the following best describes a strategy
the author uses to win the favor of her audience?
(A) Focusing on appeals to emotion rather
than appeals based on logic or ethical
imperatives
(B) Raising suspicions about the motives of those
who disagree with her viewpoint
(C) Dramatizing the negative consequences of
continuing with the current state of affairs
(D) Addressing readers from the outset as being
reasonable people of goodwill
(E) Establishing authority by highlighting her
own extensive education

2. The author's rhetorical stance is characterized by
a dynamic tension between her
(A) appeal for change and her insistence that such
a change does not threaten the status quo
(B) celebration of women's intellect and her
apparent unwillingness to name examples of
outstanding female thinkers
(C) sympathy for women writers and her desire
not to appear too partial toward them
(D) efforts to valorize domestic labor and
her obvious distaste for the drudgery of
such work
(E) concern for the state of women's education
and her conviction that men's education
needs reform as well

3. The tone of lines 3-19 ("If it is said . . . is untrue")
is most accurately characterized as
(A) strident
(B) self-effacing
(C) analytical
(D) mocking
(E) ingratiating

4. The author mentions a stereotype about women
in lines 10-11 ("If it is said . . . superficial")
primarily to
(A) argue that the flaws of certain women should
not be regarded as characteristics of women
in general
(B) dismiss a familiar argument against giving
women access to scholarly subjects
traditionally reserved for men
(C) propose a novel solution to one of the main
difficulties with educating women
(D) concede that women avoid classical study
because they usually find such subjects
uninteresting
(E) assert that the unappealing reputation of
subjects such as Greek and mathematics is
largely unjustified -

5. In lines 19-25 ("Men do not . . . the kitchen"), the
author
(A) stresses the importance of all household
business
(B) uses personal experience to illustrate social
conflicts
(C) evaluates contrasting perspectives on gender
and work
(D) questions the onerous nature of the work men
pursue
(E) supports a claim by comparing work-related
activities

6. By associating learning with housekeeping
(lines 30-42), the author
(A) shows how intellectual women can improve
their family's social standing
(B) suggests an immediate practical advantage to
educating women
(C) reveals that there are limits to what women
can achieve from book study
(D) illustrates ways in which women can learn to
economize their time
(E) dismisses the need for women to carefully
manage their households

7. The author's chief strategy in lines 47-86
("One of the best . . . less happy") is to
(A) develop a point through an extended example
(B) provide detailed commentary on the
limitations of schooling
(C) make frequent references to the achievements
of accomplished scholars
(D) pose a rhetorical question to which there is no
obvious answer
(E) present and then attack perspectives contrary
to her own

8. By referring to the "affectionate-hearted woman"
(line 49) as both "simple-minded" (line 48) and
"one of the most learned women" (lines 52-53),
the author suggests that
(A) people with undeveloped capacities should be
viewed sympathetically
(B) quiet, self-effacing people are often the most
ambitious.
(C) elegance can evolve from simple physical
comforts
(D) a cultivated intellect benefits even ordinary
people
(E) youthful exuberance often stimulates
curiosity about the natural world

9. The effect of mentioning "with much hesitation
and many blushes" (lines 70-71) is to
(A) suggest that the girl had difficulty mastering
languages
(B) imply that the girl's embarrassment was
unwarranted
(C) illustrate the societal constraints the girl faced
(D) demonstrate the girl's lack of inquisitiveness
(E) indicate the importance of Newton's
Principia to the girl

10. The author's attitude toward the girl depicted in
lines 53-77 is best described as
(A) ambivalent
(B) admiring
(C) disappointed
(D) critical
(E) anxious

11. In lines 78-79, the phrase "the great . . . nature"
presents a metaphor that
(A) illustrates the connection between Euclid,
Newton, and the study of Latin
(B) expresses the author's frustration with the
limits facing women
(C) emphasizes the challenge inherent in learning
about nature
(D) confirms the importance of reading symbols
in the natural world
(E) suggests the capacity of abstract study to
enrich one's experience of the world

12. In lines 83-86 ("Will anybody say . . . less
happy"), the passage concludes by
(A) implying that domestic contentment is
achievable only through academic study
(B) equating increased learning with personal
fulfillment
(C) reminding the audience of the author's
educational background
(D) acknowledging the controversial nature of the
topic it explores
(E) insinuating that virtuous conduct usually
entails sacrifice

13. Taken as a whole, the passage can best be
regarded as
(A) an argument for enlarging and enriching the
minds of women
(B) an examination of the educational reforms
occurring during the nineteenth century
(C) an inquiry into why domestic duties take
precedence over intellectual pursuits
(D) a collection of vignettes selected to prompt
educational change
(E) a case for more equitable distribution of
household chores

14. A central irony of the passage is that the author
(A) argues for the spiritual benefits of education
by referring to economically viable fields
of study
(B) argues for current reforms by citing historical
rather than current examples
(C) argues for expanding women's educational
opportunities to improve their performance
in traditional roles
(D) is addressing an audience of men in arguing
for reforms that would benefit only women
(E) is addressing an audience in which many lack
the education to follow her arguments

Correct Answers: 
1.D 2.A 3.C 4.B 5.E 6.B 7.A 8.D 9.C 10.B 11.E 12.B 13.A 14.C

My Answers:
1.D 2.A 3.A 4.B 5.E 6.B 7.A 8.D 9.C 10.B 11.E 12.B 13.A 14.C
