Questions 42-
55. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.
(The passage below is an excerpt from an essay
published in the late twentieth century.)

An old photograph in a cheap frame hangs on a
wall of the room where I work. It's a picture dating
from 1946 of a house into which, at the time of its
taking, I had not yet been born. The house is rather
(5) peculiar--a three-storeyed gabled affair with tiled
roofs and round towers in two corners, each wearing a
pointy tiled hat. "The past is a foreign country," goes
the famous opening sentence of L. P. Hartley's novel
The Go-Between, "they do things differently there."
(10) But the photograph tells me to invert this idea; it
reminds me that it's my present that is foreign. and
that the past is home, albeit a lost home in a lost city
in the mists of lost time.
A few years ago I revisited Bombay,! which is my
(15) lost city, after an absence of something like half my
life. Shortly after arriving, acting on an impulse, I
opened the telephone directory and looked for my
father's name. And, amazingly, there it was; his
name, our old address, the unchanged telephone
(20) number, as if we had never gone away to the
unmentionable country across the border. It was an
eerie discovery. I felt as if I were being claimed, or
informed that the facts of my faraway life were
illusions, and that this continuity was the reality. Then
(25) I went to visit the house in the photograph and stood
outside it, neither daring nor wishing to announce
myself to its new owners. (I didn't want to see how
they'd ruined the interior.) I was overwhelmed. The
photograph had naturally been taken in black and
(30) white; and my memory, feeding on such images as
this, had begun to see my childhood in the same way,
monochromatically. The colours of my history had
seeped out of my mind's eye; now my other two eyes
were assaulted by colours, by the vividness of the red
(35) tiles, the yellow-edged green of cactus-leaves, the
brilliance of bougainvillaea creeper. It is probably not
too romantic to say that that was when my novel
Midnight's Children was really born: when | realized
how much I wanted to restore the past to myself, not
(40) in the faded greys of old family-album snapshots, but
whole, in CinemaScope and glorious Technicolor.
Bombay is a city built by foreigners upon
reclaimed land; I, who had been away so long that J
almost qualified for the title, was gripped by the
(45) conviction that I, too, had a city and a history to
reclaim.
It may be that writers in my position, exiles or
emigrants or expatriates, are haunted by some sense
of loss, some urge to reclaim, to look back, even
(50) at the risk of being mutated into pillars of salt.?
But if we do look back, we must also do so in the
knowledge--which gives rise to profound
uncertainties--that our physical alienation from India
almost inevitably means that we will not be capable of
(55) reclaiming precisely the thing that was lost; that we
will, in short, create fictions, not actual cities or
villages, but invisible ones, imaginary homelands,
Indias of the mind.
Writing my book in North London, looking out
(60) through my window on to a city scene totally unlike
the ones I was imagining on to paper, I was constantly
plagued by this problem, until I felt obliged to face it
in the text, to make clear that (in spite of my original
and I suppose somewhat Proustian ambition to unlock
(65) the gates of lost time so that the past reappeared as it
actually had been, unaffected by the distortions of
memory) what I was actually doing was a novel of
memory and about memory, so that my India was just
that: 'my' India, a version and no more than one
(70) version of all the hundreds of millions of possible
versions. I tried to make it as imaginatively true as I
could, but imaginative truth is simultaneously
honourable and suspect, and I knew that my India
may only have been one to which I (who am no
(75) longer what I was, and who by quitting Bombay never
became what perhaps I was meant to be) was, let us
say, willing to admit I belonged.
This is why I made my narrator, Saleem, suspect in
his narration; his mistakes are the mistakes of a
(80) fallible memory compounded by quirks of character
and of circumstance, and his vision is fragmentary. It
may be that when the Indian writer who writes from
outside India tries to reflect that world, he is obliged
to deal in broken mirrors, some of whose fragments
(85) have been irretrievably lost.
------------------------------------------------------------------
1. the city of Mumbai, India, was commonly known as Bombay until the
mid- 1990s.
2. an allusion to a biblical story in which Lot's wife disobeys a divine
command against looking back at her city and is punished by being
transformed into a pillar of salt

42. In the first paragraph, the author describes a
photograph (lines 1-7) in order to
(A) introduce ideas about time, place, and
memory
(B) locate the reader in North London
(C) lament long-extinct cultural traditions
(D) establish the theme of childhood innocence
(E) reflect on the differences between art and
reality

43. In the first paragraph, the author cites Hartley
(lines 7-9) primarily to
(A) bolster experiential evidence with published
authority
(B) show why he trusts the accuracy of memory
(C) introduce an established concept that he seeks
to challenge
(D) argue that all people feel displaced at some
point during their lives
(E) illustrate the importance of detailed
description in writing

44. In the second paragraph, terms such as
"amazingly" (line 18), "eerie" (line 22), and
"illusions" (line 24) emphasize which of the
following?
(A) The failure of the author to understand his
situation
(B) The power of the past to determine one's
future
(C) The fantasy that photographs capture history
(D) The strangeness of the author's experience
in Bombay
(E) The transformative power of the author's
imagination

45. In lines 28-41 ("The photograph . . . glorious
Technicolor"), the author uses color imagery
primarily to
(A) enrich his understanding of what his life
would have been like if he had stayed
in India
(B) contrast the vibrancy of his recent experience
with the drabness of the past as he had
remembered it
(C) capture the intensity of a child's wonder in
exploring the natural world
(D) create a visual association between
forgetfulness and darkness
(E) illustrate the dangers of relying on physical
evidence to relate a story

46. The phrase "The colours of my history had seeped
out of my mind's eye" (lines 32-33) is best
interpreted as meaning
(A) the author could no longer remember his
early years in Bombay
(B) the author realized that his childhood was
less interesting than he'd remembered
(C) the author's memory could no longer recall
the vivid details of the past
(D) the author's imagination could not alter the
true nature of the past
(E) the author's eyesight has been compromised
by an unspecified affliction

47. Lines 36-38 ("It is ... born") register the author's
anticipation that his audience is likely to be
(A) indifferent to the author's composing process
(B) amused by a charming anecdote
(C) impressed by the author's insightfulness
(D) outraged by a blatant falsehood
(E) familiar with the author's work

48. As used in line 37, "romantic" most nearly means
(A) fanciful and melodramatic
(B) boastful and egotistical
(C) impulsive and eager
(D) vague and mysterious
(E) bold and foolish

49. The author's tone in the second paragraph
(lines 14-41) may best be described as
(A) enthusiastic and lighthearted
(B) questioning and pleading
(C) aggravated and brash
(D) introspective and confessional
(E) pedantic and disinterested

50. In line 44, "the title" to which the author refers is
(A) the author of Midnight's Children
(B) aresident of Bombay
(C) an Indian citizen
(D) a deed for property in India
(E) a foreigner in India

51. In the sentence beginning "It may be"
(lines 47-50), the author shifts from
(A) expressing conviction to revealing doubts
about that conviction
(B) reflecting on personal experience to
hypothesizing about other authors
(C) presenting a conflict to providing its
resolution
(D) describing one culture to speculating about
other cultures
(E) explaining an effect to analyzing its causes

52. Which of the following is emphasized in the
fourth paragraph (lines 47-58) ?
(A) The rewards of the author's perseverance
(B) The challenges of an author's desire for
accurate representation
(C) The ambivalence of an immigrant toward his
new country
(D) The persuasive power of an author's
imagination
(E) The need for authors to be faithful to the past

53. The author indicates that he coped with "the
distortions of memory" (lines 66-67) by
(A) visiting his home in Bombay to create new
memories
(B) presenting several versions of the same story
(C) imitating the project of capturing lost history
(D) trusting his memory in the long run to record
the past accurately
(E) making memory one of the topics of his
novel

54. Words such as "fallible" (line 80) and
"fragmentary" (line 81) in the final paragraph
imply which of the following about the author?
(A) He suffers from an increasing sense of
alienation.
(B) He interprets the history of India as tragic in
nature.
(C) He can only portray successfully his present
experience in North London.
(D) He cannot represent the past with complete
accuracy.
(E) He is committed to the idea of objective
truth. >

55. Taken as a whole, the passage is best described as
(A) a discussion of various aspects of a
controversial issue,
(B) a reflection on changes in India during the
mid- to late twentieth century
(C) a reminiscence of characters who shaped the
author's childhood
(D) a discourse on the experience of alienation
in immigrant populations
(E) an analysis of the circumstances and
emotions that inspired the author's work

Correct Answers:
42.A 43.C 44.D 45.B 46.C 47.E 48.A 49.D 50.E 51.B 52.B 53.E 54.D 55.E

My Answers:
42.A 43.C 44.D 45.B 46.C 47.E 48.A 49.D 50.E 51.B 52.B 53.E 54.D 55.E
