Questions 30-41. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.

(The following is excerpted from an essay written in
1918 by a British writer.)

Walking for walking's sake may be as highly
laudable and exemplary a thing as it is held to be by
those who practise it. My objection to it is that it stops
the brain. Many a man has professed to me that his
(5) brain never works so well as when he is swinging
along the high road or over hill and dale. This boast is
not confirmed by my memory of anybody who on a
Sunday morning has forced me to partake of his
adventure. Experience teaches me that whatever a
(10) fello w-guest may have of power to instruct or to
amuse when he is sitting on a chair, or standing on a
hearth-rug, quickly leaves him when he takes one out
for a walk. The ideas that came so thick and fast to
him in any room, where are they now? where that
(15) encyclopaedic knowledge which he bore so lightly?
where the kindling fancy that played like summer
lightning over any topic that was started? The man's
face that was so mobile is set now; gone is the light
from his fine eyes. He says that A. (our host) is a
(20) thoroughly good fellow. Fifty yards further on, he
adds that A. is one of the best fellows he has ever met.
We tramp another furlong or so, and he says that
Mrs. A. is a charming woman. Presently he adds that
she is one of the most charming women he has ever
(25) known. We pass an inn. He reads vapidly aloud to
me: "The King's Arms. Licensed to sell Ales and
Spirits." I foresee that during the rest of the walk he
will read aloud any inscription that occurs. We pass a
milestone. He points at it with his stick, and says
(30) "Uxminster. 11 Miles." We turn a sharp corner at the
foot of a hill. He points at the wall, and says "Drive
Slowly." I see far ahead, on the other side of the
hedge bordering the high road, a small notice-board.
He sees it too. He keeps his eye on it. And in due
(35) course "Trespassers," he says, "Will Be Prosecuted."
Poor man! --mentally a wreck.
Luncheon at the A.s, however, salves him and
floats him in full sail. Behold him once more the life
and soul of the party. Surely he will never, after the
(40) bitter lesson of this morning. go out for another walk.
An hour later, | see him striding forth, with a new
companion. | watch him out of sight. | know what he
is saying. He is saying that I am rather a dull man to
goa walk with. He will presently add that Iam one of
(45) the dullest men he ever went a walk with. Then he
will devote himself to reading out the inscriptions.
How comes it, this immediate deterioration in those
who go walking for walking's sake? Just what
happens? I take it that not by his reasoning faculties is
(50) aman urged to this enterprise. He is urged, evidently,
by something in him that transcends reason; by his
soul, I presume. Yes, it must be the soul that raps
out the "Quick march!" to the body. --"Halt! Stand
at ease!" interposes the brain, and "To what
(55) destination," it suavely asks the soul, "and on what
errand, are you sending the body?" --"On no errand
whatsoever," the soul makes answer, "and to no
destination at all. It is just like you to be always on the
look-out for some subtle ulterior motive. The body is
(60) going out because the mere fact.of its doing so is a
sure indication of nobility, probity, and rugged
grandeur of character."--"Very well, Vagula*, have
your own wayula! But I," says the brain, "flatly refuse
to be mixed up in this tomfoolery. I shall go to sleep
(65) till it is over." The brain then wraps itself up in its
own convolutions, and falls into a dreamless slumber
from which nothing can rouse it till the body has been
safely deposited indoors again.
Even if you go to some definite place, for some
(70) definite purpose, the brain would rather you took a
vehicle: but it does not make a point of this: it will
serve you well enough unless you are going out for a
walk. It won't, while your legs are vying with each
other, do any deep thinking for you, nor even any
(75) close thinking; but it will do any number of small odd
jobs for you willingly --provided that your legs, also,
are making themselves useful, not merely bandying
you about to gratify the pride of the soul. Such as it is,
this essay was composed in the course of a walk, this
(80) morning. J am not one of those extremists who must
have a vehicle to every destination. I never go out of
my way, as it were, to avoid exercise. I take it as it
comes. and take it in good part. That valetudinarians
are always chattering about it, and indulging in it to
(85) excess. is no reason for despising it. I am inclined to
think that in moderation it is rather good for one,
physically. But, pending a time when no people wish
me to go and see them, and T have no wish to go and
see any one, and there is nothing whatever for me
(90) to do off my own premises. I never will go out for
a walk.
* Latin, to describe one who is wandering or roving

30. In the passage's first two sentences (lines 1-4), the
author
(A) anticipates support for his thesis
(B) expresses interest in contrary views
(C) mocks those readers who disagree with his
perspective
(D) sets forth his central claim
(E) appeals to common experience

31. The series of questions in lines 13-17 ("The ideas
that came . . . over any topic that was started?") is
most likely intended to
(A) offer factual support for the author's position
(B) present a broad range of perspectives
(C) reinforce a claim presented earlier
(D) appeal to the reader's sense of curiosity
(E) clarify the passage's sequence of topics

32. In lines 19-36 ("He says .. . a wreck"), the author
uses repetition and parallel sentence structure to
(A) create a sense of mounting tension and
anxiety
(B) mimic the simple-minded monotony of the
conversation
(C) suggest a jumble of competing thoughts and
impressions
(D) hint at the presence of innuendo and hidden
meanings
(E) portray the quick and bantering nature of the
incident

33. How does the statement in lines 27-28
("I foresee . . . occurs") relate to the subsequent
sentences in the first paragraph (lines 28-36) ?
(A) It poses a theory that is refined later in the
paragraph.
(B) It reveals feelings of the narrator's that
change later in the paragraph.
(C) It provides an explanation for some of the
behavior described later in the paragraph.
(D) It introduces a shift in the narrator's thinking
that is explored in the rest of the paragraph.
(E) It makes a prediction that is then supported in
the rest of the paragraph.

34. In lines 37-38, "salves him and floats him in full
sail" most nearly means
(A) causes him embarrassment
(B) restores him to his best
(C) makes him disavow his faults
(D) exposes his shallowness
(E) soothes his hurt feelings

35. The term "bitter lesson" (line 40) can best be
read asa
(A) common boast
(B) reflective aside
(C) warning to the audience
(D) humorous exaggeration
(E) defiant rejoinder .

36. Which of the following rhetorical strategies does
the author employ in lines 43-46 ("He is saying
. .. reading out the inscriptions") ?
(A) He compares himself with the fellow-guest to
emphasize the philosophical differences
between them.
(B) He makes a potent allusion to demonstrate
the breadth of his knowledge.
(C) He presents credible evidence to forestall any
potential objections from the reader.
(D) He repeats the structure of an earlier
conversation to underscore his main
argument.
(E) He mounts a personal attack on the fellow-
guest to discredit his actions.

37. In the third paragraph (lines 47-68), the author
presents the conversation between the brain and
the soul in order to
(A) distinguish between practical activity and
speculative thought
(B) propose an important link between physical
fitness and mental fitness
(C) account for the brain's behavior described
earlier in the passage
(D) introduce a difference between the two that
will be refuted later
(E) explain why the body must obey the soul's
impulses

38. The sentence "Such as it is, this essay was
composed in the course of a walk" (lines 78-79)
best exemplifies the author's
(A) use of concrete imagery
(B) advocacy for regular exercise
(C) use of self-deprecating irony
(D) willingness to disclose personal information
(E) reconciliation of opposing positions

39. In line 82, the author uses the phrase
"as it were" to
(A) call attention to a play on words
(B) underscore his main point
(C) refute an opposing view
(D) acknowledge exceptions to a rule
(E) generalize from specific incidents

40. In context, "valetudinarians" (line 83) refers to
persons who are
(A) acting like meddling servants
(B) taking brave but unnecessary chances
(C) bidding their friends farewell
(D) noted for their intellectual accomplishments
(E) preoccupied with their health

41. Taken as a whole, the tone of the passage is best
described as
(A) quietly confessional
(B) deeply philosophical
(C) sternly reproachful
(D) scrupulously objective
(E) wryly mocking

Correct Answers: 
30.D 31.C 32.B 33.E 34.B 35.D 36.D 37.C 38.C 39.A 40.E 41.E

My Answers: 
30.D 31.C 32.B 33.E 34.B 35.D 36.D 37.C 38.C 39.E 40.E 41.E