Questions 15-29. Read the following passage
carefully before you choose your answers.

(The passage below is from a book published in the
1980s.)

The conquest of Mexico was one aggressive part of
the Iberian project to expand its hegemony beyond the
known world. One result of this amazing adventure
WAS, surprisingly, a reorientation in world view that,
(5) in cartographic terms, saw the growing outline of
America replace Jerusalem as the symbolic center of
the world.! The enchanting places and inhabitants of
the Indies were the focus of tremendous curiosity and
confusion in Spain. This led to a flurry of published
(10) accounts and histories of the explorations,
discoveries, and conquests, as well as descriptions of
the societies that had been subdued. In this context,
there was an effort to produce documents "more
satisfying to the Europeans and make them more
(15) readable to one not versed in the native traditions."2
This resulted in the limited but enthusiastic
encouragement of Indian painters still conversant with
the preconquest picture-writing tradition to reproduce
picture books that would attract and please European
(20) eyes. The best example of this can be seen in the work
sponsored by the greatest patron of the native artists,
the viceroy of Mexico. Don Antonio de Mendoza, an
enthusiastic collector of native "curios." Called by
one scholar a "Renaissance Maecenas" [Maecenas
(25) was a Roman statesman known for his patronage of
literature and the arts], Mendoza noted that the
ravages of the conquest had destroyed countless
native artifacts and had effaced the craft traditions
that generated them.? He responded in the 1540s by
(30) hiring native artists and establishing them in
workshops where they could fabricate "curios"
for his own collection and for King Charles I of
Spain. One of the most beautiful and revealing
pictorial documents composed under his patronage
(35) was the Codex Mendoza, which consisted of
seventy-one folios bound at the spine in the manner of
European books, but painted largely in the native
style. Picture pages alternate with Spanish translations
of the pictographs and ideographs. Although the
(40) pre-Columbian mode of pictorial representation had
been altered somewhat in this document, authentic
Aztec patterns of symbolic thought, tribute collection,
and daily life were presented, making this codex
extremely valuable for interpreting Mesoamerican
(45) urbanism. In this manner, the ancient tradition was
revived and Spanish understanding of Aztec life
increased.
In New Spain the task of building a new system
forced both the colonizers and the colonized to utilize
(50) the indigenous maps, tribute records, land claims,
and genealogies in order for Spanish political and
administrative order to be imposed and maintained in
such a rapidly changing society. In order to gain a
comprehensive understanding of the new colonial
(55) communities, a research effort was ordered by
Philip I of Spain. He had a series of questionnaires
sent to the colony, compelling the local administrators
of each town and region to compile organized
descriptions of native society. A large number of
(60) Relaciones Geogrdficas and Descripciones were
compiled, each requiring a map or pintura of the local
community's geography.* These maps carried
vestiges of the native pictorial tradition and served to
reanimate the art in local situations. These
(65) administrative documents are invaluable for
understanding the geography, political organization,
and social character of parts of pre-Hispanic Mexico.
In several instances, they provide illuminating
views of religious traditions including beliefs
(70) about Quetzalcoat! [one of the main deities of
pre-Hispanic Mesoamerican civilizations] and the
Toltecs [a civilization that flourished in central
Mexico between the tenth and twelfth centuries].
The great stimulation for the transmission of native
(75) beliefs and pictorial and oral traditions into the
colonial period came from the friars who were
committed to transforming Indian consciousness.> It
is from the documents generated through contact with
Mendicant institutions that we draw a great deal of
so information about pre-Columbian religion and the city
[Tenochtitlan, the Aztec capital]. Within the charged
political atmosphere of the developing colony, the
Mendicant orders had immense influence on all parts
of life.
---------------------------------------------------
1 See Mircea Eliade, "Paradise and Utopia: Mythical
Geography and Eschatology," in The Quest (Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1969) for a discussion of
America as the "New World," which, it was believed,
would usher in a new age for all mankind.

2 For a detailed and inspired analysis of the persistence and
transformation of Pre-Columbian pictorial traditions, see
Donald Robertson, Mexican Manuscript Painting of the
Early Colonial Period: The Metropolitan Schools
(New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1959).

3 Ibid., p. 2.

4 Relaciones Geogrdficas, a major group of sources
concerning sixteenth-century Mexico and the Spanish
Indies, consist of replies by local Spanish officials
throughout Middle and South America "to a standard
questionnaire developed by imperial bureaucrats in
Madrid, making 50 broad queries applicable alike to
European, Indian, and Maritime communities in the
overseas realms." Howard Cline, in his article, "The
Relaciones Geogrdficas of the Spanish Indies,
1577-1648," in Handbook, 12:183, tells us that the
questionnaire "specified in detail how alcaldes mayores,
corregidores, and others assigned to answer it were to do
so." These documents required a pintura or map and the
written section.

5 Kubler's "Introduction: The Mendicant Friars," in
Mexican Architecture, provides the best general
summary of the Mendicant enterprise in Mexico.

15. The primary purpose in the passage is to
(A) account for the transmission of culture during
a period of global change
(B) explore the artistic traditions represented in
native artifacts
(C) dispute persistent myths about colonial life in
New Spain
(D) define the motivations of Mexico's European
colonizers
(E) identify traditions that undermine
contemporary understandings of
Aztec culture

16. In context, the phrase "the Iberian project" (line 2)
refers to Spain's efforts to
(A) influence the attitudes of colonial residents
(B) actively change colonial culture
(C) extend Spanish power and global reach
(D) dispel persistent confusion about Spanish
colonial intentions
(E) increase Spanish appreciation of colonial
culture

17. The main purpose of note | is to
(A) identify a book of considerable influence in
the field
(B) call attention to a competing perspective
(C) disclose a widely. read but faulty
interpretation of events
(D) cite an argument that has been largely
overlooked by historians
(E) provide support for the author's explanation
of historical events

18. In lines 7-12 ("The enchanting places . . . had
been subdued"), the author portrays Europeans as
being
(A) ready to join expeditions to the Indies
(B) skeptical of accounts about the Indies
(C) apprehensive about contact with the Indies
(D) eager for knowledge of the Indies
(E) proud of having conquered peoples of the
Indies

19. In line 24, the author uses the phrase
"a 'Renaissance Maecenas' " primarily to
emphasize
(A) Mendoza's extensive knowledge of classical
literature
(B) Mendoza's support for the work of Indian
artists
(C) the intermingling of European and American
cultural traditions
(D) the toll of the Spanish conquest on native
craft traditions
(E) the importance of the picture-writing tradition
in Mexican history

20. Which of the following statements provides the
most accurate reading of note 3 ?
(A) Donald Robertson taught at Yale University.
(B) The author's praise for Robertson's work in
note 2 is qualified in note 3.
(C) Robertson's analysis appeared in a journal
before it was published in a book.
(D) Notes 2 and 3 refer to the same source.
(E) The source of information cited at this point
of the passage is untraceable.

21. Which of the following best describes the
function of the second paragraph (lines 48-73) ?
(A) It details unfortunate consequences of Spain's
colonization efforts.
(B) It emphasizes events that reoriented the
interests of Spanish overseers.
(C) It accounts for circumstances that increased
European access to native culture.
(D) It explains the unique circumstances that
challenged Spain's leaders.
(E) It reiterates the role of local authorities in
upholding established traditions.

22. In lines 59-64 ("A large number . . . local
situations"), the author implies that the
compilation of Relaciones Geogrdficas and
Descripciones .
(A) helped to preserve elements of the indigenous
artistic tradition
(B) led to superficial comparisons between
indigenous and European artworks
(C) facilitated efforts to modify the political
organization of the indigenous people
(D) did little to improve Spanish understanding of
colonial geography
(E) sparked a change in traditional religious
beliefs among the indigenous people

23. In connection with his discussion of Relaciones
Geogrdficas and Descripciones, note 4 allows the
author to
(A) indicate the extent of disagreement regarding
their origin and purpose
(B) offer a more comprehensive description of
these documents
(C) comment explicitly on Cline's credibility
(D) insert information to qualify his statements
about the documents' value
(E) object to the questionnaire's methodology

24. In the context in which it appears, "stimulation"
(line 74) most nearly means
(A) excitement
(B) admonition
(C) motivation
(D) responsibility
(E) agitation

25. Based on the information provided in note 5, it
can be inferred that
(A) Kubler is the only expert on the Mendicant
Friars
(B) Kubler wrote only the introduction to
Mexican Architecture
(C) Kubler is a recommended source for readers
seeking further information on the topic
(D) Kubler's analysis of Aztec architecture is
critical to understanding the topic
(E) Kubler's work was published after the author
wrote the passage

26. Which of the following best characterizes the
author's treatment of the Mendicant friars in the
third paragraph (lines 74-84) ?
(A) He minimizes the importance of the friars'
role in the developing colony.
(B) He denounces the imperialistic nature of the
friars' mission.
(C) He is skeptical of the friars' commitment to
transforming Indian consciousness.
(D) He appreciates the wealth of cultural
knowledge amassed by the friars.
(E) He is moved by the religious fervor of the
friars.

27. The passage is most likely excerpted from
(A) an informational essay hailing the triumph of
local arts over colonial interests
(B) an educational article exploring the ethical
issues surrounding colonization
(C) aresearch report promoting art history as a
field of study
(D) a scholarly work explaining historical
developments in indigenous arts
(E) a descriptive analysis examining the effect of
geography on art

28. Based on the tone and content of the passage as a
whole, its author is most likely
(A) an opponent of colonial rule
(B) an aesthete fascinated by pictorial
representations of colonial life
(C) a scholar intrigued by cultural evolution
(D) a biographer of the Spanish monarchy
(E) an apologist for the actions of Philip II

29. The chief irony conveyed by the passage is that
(A) those who boasted about their conquests in
the Indies came to value indigenous cultural
traditions over their own
(B) those who sought to impose foreign rule on
Mexico played a major role in preserving its
indigenous artistic traditions
(C) those who were committed to converting the
indigenous people were deeply influenced
by Aztec religious traditions
(D) Philip II's efforts to establish order in the
colonies led to civil unrest in Spain
(E) the information Spain collected on the
colonies became more useful to religious
orders than to the government

Correct Answers:
15.A 16.C 17.E 18.D 19.B 20.D 21.C 22.A 23.B 24.C 25.C 26.D 27.D 28.C 29.B

My Answers:
15.A 16.C 17.E 18.D 19.B 20.E 21.C 22.A 23.B 24.C 25.C 26.D 27.D 28.C 29.B